                   THE ROYAL BOOK OF OZ


                by RUTH PLUMLY THOMPSON


          Reilly & Lee edition, copyright 1921




CHAPTER 1

PROFESSOR WOGGLEBUG'S GREAT IDEA


"The very thing!" exclaimed Professor Wogglebug, bounding into the air and
upsetting his gold inkwell. "The very next idea!"

"Who -- me?" A round-faced little Munchkin boy stuck his head in the door and
regarded Professor Wogglebug solemnly. He was working his way through the
Professor's Athletic college, and one of his duties was to wait upon this
eminent educator of Oz.

"Certainly not!" snapped Professor Wogglebug. "You're a nobody or a nothing.
Stop gaping and fetch me my hat. I'm off to the Emerald City. And mind the
pupils take their history pills regularly while I'm gone," he added,
clapping his tall hat Zif held out to him on the back of his head.

"Yes, sir!" said the little Munchkin respectfully.

"Don't hurry back, sir!" This last remark the Professor did not hear, for he
was already half way down the college steps.

"Ozma will be delighted with the idea. How clever I am!" he murmured,
twirling his antennae and walking rapidly down the pleasant blue lane.

The Professor, whose College of Art and Athletic Perfection is in the
southwestern part of the Munchkin country, is the biggest bug in Oz, or in
anyplace else, for that matter. He has made education painless by
substituting school pills for books. His students take Latin, history and
spelling pills; they swallow knowledge of every kind with ease and pleasure
and spend the rest of their time in sport. No wonder he is so well thought
of in Oz! No wonder he thinks so well of himself!

Swinging his cane jauntily, the Professor hurried toward the yellow brick road
that leads to the Emerald City, and by nightfall had reached the lovely
capital of Oz.

Oz! -- that marvelous country where no one grows old -- where animals and
birds talk as sensibly as people, and adventures happen every day. Indeed, of
all fairylands in the world, Oz is the most delightful, and of all fairy
cities, the Emerald City is the most beautiful. A soft green light shone for
miles about, and the gemmed turrets and spires of the palace flashed more
brightly than the stars. But its loveliness was familiar to Professor
Wogglebug, and without a pause he proceeded to Ozma's palace and was at
once admitted to the great hall.

A roar of merriment greeted his ears. Ozma, the lovely girl ruler of Oz, was
having a party, and the room was full of most surprising people -- surprising
to some, that is, but old friends to most of us.

Jack, holding tightly to his pumpkin head, was running as fast as his wooden
feet and wobbly legs would take him from Dorothy. A game of blind-man's-buff
was in full swing, and Scraps and Tik-Tok, the Scarecrow and Nick
Chopper, the Glass Cat and the Cowardly Lion, the Wizard of Oz and the
wooden Sawhorse, Cap'n Bill and Betsy Bobbin, Billina and the Hungry Tiger
were tumbling over each other in an effort to keep away from the
blindfolded little girl.

But Dorothy was too quick for them. With a sudden
whirl, she spun 'round and grasped a coatsleeve.

"The Scarecrow!" she laughed triumphantly. "I can tell by the way he
skwoshes -- and now he's it!"

"I'm always it!" chuckled the droll person. "But -- hah! Behold the
learned Professor standing so aloofly in our midst."

No one had noticed Professor Wogglebug, who had been quietly watching the
game.

"I don't like to interrupt the party," he began, approaching Ozma's
throne apologetically, "but I've just had a most brilliant idea!"

"What? Another?" murmured the Scarecrow, rolling up his eyes.

"Where did you lose it?" asked Jack Pumpkinhead, edging forward anxiously.

"Lose it! Who said I'd lost it?" snapped the Professor, glaring at poor
Jack.

"Well, you said you'd had it, and had is the past tense, so --" Jack's
voice trailed off uncertainly, and Ozma, seeing he was embarrassed, begged
the Professor to explain.

"Your Highness!" began Professor Wogglebug, while the company settled down
in a resigned circle on the floor, "As Oz is the most interesting and
delightful country on the Continent of Imagination and its people the most
unusual and talented, I am about to compile a Royal Book which will give
the names and history of all our people. In other words, I am to be the
Great, Grand Genealogist of Oz!"

"Whatever that is," the Scarecrow whispered in Dorothy's ear.

"And," the Professor frowned severely on the Scarecrow, "with your Majesty's
permission, I shall start at once!"

"Please do," said the Scarecrow with a wave toward the door, "and we will go
on with the party!"

Scraps, the Patchwork Girl, who had been staring fixedly at the Professor
with her silver suspender-button eyes, now sprang to her feet:

    "What is a genealogist?
    It's something no one here has missed;
    What puts such notions in your head?
    Turn out your toes -- or go to bed!"

she shouted gaily, then, catching Ozma's disapproving glance, fell over
backwards.

"I don't understand it at all," said Jack Pumpkinhead in a depressed voice.
"I'm afraid my head's too ripe."

"Nor I," said Tik-Tok, the copper clockwork man. "Please wind me up a
lit-tle tight-er Dor-o-thy, I want to think!"

Dorothy obligingly took a key suspended from a hook on his back and wound
him up under his left arm. Everybody began to talk at once, and what with
the Cowardly Lion's deep growl and Tik-Tok's squeaky voice and all the rest
of the tin and meat and wooden voices, the confusion was terrible.

"Wait!" cried Ozma, clapping her hands.

Immediately the room grew so still that one could hear Tik-Tok's machinery 
whirring 'round.

"Now!" said Ozma, "One at a time, please, and let us hear from the Scarecrow
first."

The Scarecrow rose. "I think, your Highness," he said modestly, "that anyone
who has studied his Geozify already knows who we are and --"

"Who you are?" broke in the Wogglebug scornfully -- "Of course they do -- but
I shall tell them who you were!"

"Who I were?" gasped the Scarecrow in a dazed voice, raising his cotton
glove to his forehead. "Who I were? Well, who were I?"

"That's just the point," said Professor Wogglebug. "Who were you? Who were
your ancestors? Where is your family? Where is your family tree? From what
did you descend?"

At each question, the Scarecrow looked more embarrassed. He repeated the
last one several times.

"From what did I descend? From what did I descend? Why, from a bean pole!"
he cried.

This was perfectly true, for Dorothy, a little girl blown by a Kansas
cyclone to the Kingdom of Oz, had discovered the Scarecrow in a farmer's
cornfield and had lifted him down from his pole. Together they had made the
journey to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz had fitted him out with
a fine set of brains. At one time, he had ruled Oz and was generally
considered its cleverest citizen.

Before he could reply further, the Patchwork Girl, who was simply
irrepressible, burst out:

    "An ex-straw-ordinary man is he!
    A bean pole for his family tree,
    A Cornishman, upon my soul,
    Descended from a tall, thin Pole!"

"Nonsense!" said Professor Wogglebug sharply, "Being stuffed with straw may
make him extraordinary, but it is quite plain that the Scarecrow was nobody
before he was himself. He has no ancestors, no family; only a bean pole for
a family tree, and is therefore entitled to the merest mention in the Royal
Book of Oz!"

"How about my brains?" asked the Scarecrow in a hurt voice. "Aren't they
enough?"

"Brains have simply nothing to do with royalty!" Professor Wogglebug waved
his fountain pen firmly. "Now --"

"But see here, wasn't I ruler of Oz?" put in the Scarecrow anxiously.

"A Ruler but never a royalty!" snapped out the Professor. "Now, if you
will all answer my questions as I call your names, I'll get the necessary
data and be off."

He took out a small memorandum book.

"Your Highness," he bowed to Ozma, "need not bother. I have already entered
your name at the head of the list. Being descended as you are from a long line
of fairies, your family tree is the oldest and most illustrious in Oz."

"Princess Dorothy!"

At the sound of her name, the little girl stood up.

"I know you are from Kansas and were created a Princess of Oz by our
gracious Ruler, but can you tell me anything of your ancestors in America?"
demanded the Professor, staring over the top of his thick glasses.

"You'll have to ask Uncle Henry and Aunt Em," said Dorothy rather sulkily.
The Professor had hurt the feelings of her best friend, the Scarecrow, and
ancestors did not interest her one little bit.

"Very well," said the Professor, writing industriously in his book. "I'll
just enter you as 'Dorothy, Princess of Oz and sixth cousin to a
President!' "

"I'm not!" Dorothy shook her head positively.

"Oh, everyone in America can claim that!" said the Professor easily.

"Nick Chopper!"

Now up rose our old friend the Tin Woodman, who had also been discovered by
Dorothy on her first trip to the Fairyland of Oz.

"You were a man of meat at one time and a woodman by trade?" queried
Professor Wogglebug, poising his pen in the air.

"I am a Tin Woodman, and you may enter me in your book under the name of
Smith, for a tin Smith made me, and as Royal Emperor of the Winkies, I do
not care to go back to my meat connections," said the Tin Woodman in a
dignified voice.

The company applauded, and the Cowardly Lion thumped the floor with his tail.

"Smith is a very good name. I can work up a whole chapter on that," smiled the
Professor. The Tin Woodman had once been a regular person, but a wicked witch
enchanted his ax, and first it chopped off one leg, then the other, and next
both arms and his head. After each accident, Nick went to a tinsmith for
repairs, and finally was entirely made of tin. Nowhere but in Oz could such a
thing happen. But no one can be killed in this marvelous country, and Nick,
with his tin body, went gaily on living and was considered so distinguished
that the Winkies had begged him to be their Emperor.

"Scraps!" called the Professor as Nick sat stiffly down beside Dorothy.

The Patchwork Girl pirouetted madly to the front. Putting one finger in her
mouth, she sang:

    "I'm made of patches, as you see.
    A clothes tree is my family tree
    But, pshaw! It's all the same to me!"

A clothes tree? Even Professor Wogglebug grinned. Who could help laughing at
Scraps? Made of odd pieces of goods and brought to life by the powder of
life, the comical girl was the jolliest person imaginable.

"Put me down as a man of me-tal!" drawled Tik-Tok the copper man as the
laugh following Scraps' rhyme had subsided. Tik-Tok was still another of
Dorothy's discoveries, and this marvelous machine man, guaranteed to last a
thousand years, could think, walk, and talk when properly wound.

The Cowardly Lion was entered as a King in his own right. One after the
other, the celebrities of Oz came forward to answer Professor Wogglebug's
questions. The Professor wrote rapidly in his little book. Ozma listened
attentively to each one, and they all seemed interested except the
Scarecrow. Slumped down beside Dorothy, he stared morosely at the ceiling,
his jolly face all wrinkled down on one side.

"If I only knew who I were!" he muttered over and over. "I must think!"

"Don't you mind." Dorothy patted his shoulder kindly. "Royalties are out of
date, and I'll bet the Professor's family tree was a milkweed!"

But the Scarecrow refused to be comforted, and long after the company had
retired he sat hunched sadly in his corner.

"I'll do it! I'll do it!" he exclaimed at last, rising unsteadily to his feet.
Jellia Jamb, Ozma's little waiting maid, returning somewhat later to fetch a
handkerchief her mistress had dropped, was surprised to see him running
through the long hall.

"Why, where are you going?" asked Jellia.

"To find my family tree!" said the Scarecrow darkly, and drawing himself up
to his full height, he fell through the doorway.



CHAPTER 2

THE SCARECROW'S FAMILY TREE


The moon shone brightly, but everyone in the Emerald City was fast asleep!
Through the deserted streets hurried the Scarecrow. For the first time
since his discovery by little Dorothy, he was really unhappy. Living as he
did in a Fairyland, he had taken many things for granted and had rather
prided himself on his unusual appearance. Indeed, not until Professor
Wogglebug's rude remarks concerning his family had he given his past a
thought.

"I am the only person in Oz without a family!" he reflected sorrowfully.
"Even the Cowardly Lion has kingly parents and a palm tree! But I must keep
thinking. My brains have never failed me yet. Who was I? Who were I? Who
were I?"

Often he thought so hard that he forgot to look where he was going and ran
headlong into fences, stumbled down gutters, and over stiles. But fortunately,
the dear fellow could not hurt himself, and he would struggle up, pat his
straw into shape, and walk straightway into something else. He made good time
in between falls, however, and was soon well on his way down the yellow brick
road that ran through the Munchkin Country. For he had determined to return to
the Munchkin farm where Dorothy had first discovered him and try to find some
traces of his family.

Now being stuffed with straw had many advantages, for requiring neither food
nor sleep the Scarecrow could travel night and day without interruption.
The stars winked out one by one, and by the time the cocks of the Munchkin
farmers began to crow, he had come to the banks of a broad blue river!

The Scarecrow took off his hat and scratched his head thoughtfully. Crossing
rivers is no easy matter in Oz, for there isn't a ferry in the Kingdom, and
unless one is a good swimmer or equipped with some of the Wizard's magic it
is mighty troublesome. Water does not agree with the Scarecrow at all, and
as for swimming, he can no more swim than a bag of meal.

But he was too wise a person to give up merely because a thing appeared to
be impossible. It was for just such emergencies that his excellent brains
had been given to him.

"If Nick Chopper were here, he would build a raft in no time," murmured the
Scarecrow, "but as he is not, I must think of another way!"

Turning his back on the river, which distracted his mind, he began to think
with all his might. Before he could collect his thoughts, there was a
tremendous crash, and next minute he was lying face down in the mud.
Several little crashes followed, and a shower of water. Then a wet voice
called out with a cheerful chuckle:

"Come on out, my dear Rattles. Not a bad place at all, and here's breakfast
already waiting!"

"Breakfast!" The Scarecrow turned over cautiously. A huge and curious
creature was slashing through the grass toward him. A smaller and still
more curious one followed. Both were extremely damp and had evidently just
come out of the river.

"Good morning!" quavered the Scarecrow, sitting up with a jerk and at the same
time reaching for a stick that lay just behind him.

"I won't eat it if it talks -- so there!" The smaller creature stopped and
stared fixedly at the Scarecrow.

The Scarecrow, hearing this, tried to think of something else to say, but the
appearance of the two was so amazing that, as he told Dorothy afterwards, he
was struck dumb. The larger was at least two hundred feet long and made 
entirely of blocks of wood. On each block was a letter of the alphabet. The
head was a huge square block with a serpent's face and long, curling, tape-
measure tongue. The little one was very much smaller and seemed to consist of
hundreds of rattles, wood, celluloid, and rubber, fastened together with 
wires. Every time it moved, the rattles tinkled. Its face, however, was not
unpleasant, so the Scarecrow took heart and made a deep bow.

"And I'm not going to eat anything that squirms." This time it was the big
serpent who spoke.

"Thank you!" said the Scarecrow, bowing several times more. "You relieve my
mind. I've never been a breakfast yet, and I'd rather not begin. But if I
cannot be your breakfast, let me be your friend!" He extended his arms
impulsively.

There was something so jolly about the Scarecrow's smile that
the two creatures became friendly at once, and moreover told him the story
of their lives.

"As you have doubtless noted," began the larger creature, "I am an A-B-Sea
Serpent. I am employed in the nursery of the Mer children to teach them their 
letters. My friend, here, is a Rattlesnake, and it is his business to amuse 
the Mer babies while the Mermaids are mer-marketing. Once a year, we take a 
vacation, and proceeding from the sea depths up a strange river, we came out 
upon this shore. Perhaps you, Sir, will be able to tell us where we are?"

"You are in the Munchkin Country of the Land of Oz," explained the Scarecrow
politely. "It is a charming place for a vacation. I would show you about
myself if I were not bound on an important mission." Here the Scarecrow
sighed deeply.

"Have you a family?" he asked the A-B-Sea Serpent curiously.

"Yes, indeed," replied the monster, snapping its tape-measure tongue in and
out, "I have five great-grandmothers, twenty-one grandnieces, seven
brothers, and six sisters-in-law!"

"Ah!" murmured the Scarecrow, clasping his hands tragically, "How I envy
you. I have no one -- no aunts -- no ancestors -- no family -- no family tree
but a bean pole. I am, alas, a man without a past!" The Scarecrow
looked so dejected that the Rattlesnake thought he was going to cry.

"Oh, cheer up!" it begged in a distressed voice. "Think of your presence
-- here -- I give you permission to shake me!" The Scarecrow was so affected
by this kind offer that he cheered up immediately.

"No past but a presence -- I'll remember that!" He swelled out his straw chest
complacently, and leaning over, stroked the Rattlesnake on the head.

"Are you good at riddles?" asked the Rattlesnake timidly.

"Well," answered the Scarecrow judiciously, "I have very good brains, given
me by the famous Wizard of Oz."

"Then why is the A-B-Sea Serpent like a city?" asked the Rattlesnake promptly.

The Scarecrow thought hard for several seconds.

"Because it is made up of blocks!" he roared triumphantly. "That's easy; now
it's my turn. Why is the A-B-Sea Serpent such a slow talker?"

"Give it up!" said the Rattlesnake after shaking himself several times.

"Because his tongue is a tape measure, and he has to measure his words!"
cried the Scarecrow, snapping his clumsy fingers. "And that's a good one,
if I did make it myself. I must remember to tell it to Dorothy!"

Then he sobered quite suddenly, for the thought of Dorothy brought back the
purpose of his journey. Interrupting the Rattlesnake in the midst of a new
riddle, he explained how anxious he was to return to the little farm where he
had been discovered and try to find some traces of his family.

"And the real riddle," he sighed with a wave of his hand, "is how to cross
this river."

"That's easy and no riddle at all," rumbled the A-B-Sea Serpent, who had
been listening attentively to the Scarecrow's remarks. "I'll stretch
across, and you can walk over." Suiting the action to the word, he began
backing very cautiously toward the river so as not to shake the Scarecrow
off his feet.

"Mind your P's and Q's!" called the Rattlesnake warn-ingly. It was well that
he spoke, for the A-B-Sea Serpent had doubled the P and Q blocks under, and
they were ready to snap off. Finally, however, he managed to make a bridge
of himself, and the Scarecrow stepped easily over the blocks, the huge
serpent holding himself rigid. Just as he reached Y, the unfortunate
creature sneezed, and all the blocks rattled together. Up flew the
Scarecrow and escaped falling into the stream only by the narrowest margin.

"Blockhead!" shrilled the Rattlesnake, who had taken a great fancy to the
Scarecrow.

"I'm all right," cried the Scarecrow rather breathlessly. "Thank you very
much!" He sprang nimbly up the bank. "Hope you have a pleasant vacation!"

"Can't, with a rattlepate like that." The A-B-Sea Serpent nodded glumly in
the Rattlesnake's direction.

"Now don't quarrel," begged the Scarecrow. "You are both charming and
unusual, and if you follow that Yellow Road, you will come to the Emerald
City, and Ozma will be delighted to welcome you."

"The Emerald City! We must see that, my dear Rattles." Forgetting his
momentary displeasure, the A-B-Sea Serpent pulled himself out of the river,
and waving his X Y Z blocks in farewell to the Scarecrow, went
clattering down the road, the little Rattlesnake rattling along behind him.

As for the Scarecrow, he continued his journey, and the day was so
delightful and the country so pleasant that he almost forgot he had no
family. He was treated everywhere with the greatest courtesy and had
innumerable invitations from the hospitable Munchkins. He was anxious to
reach his destination, however, so he refused them all, and traveling night
and day came without further mishap or adventure late on the second evening
to the little Munchkin farm where Dorothy had first discovered him. He was
curious to know whether the pole on which he had been hoisted to scare away
the crows still stood in the cornfield and whether the farmer who had made
him could tell him anything further about his history.

"It is a shame to waken him," thought the kind Scarecrow. "I'll just take a
look in the cornfield." The moon shone so brightly that he had no trouble
finding his way about. With a little cry of pleasure, he pushed his way
through the dry cornstalks. There in the center of the field stood a tall
pole -- the very identical bean pole from which he had descended.

"All the family or family tree I've got!" cried the Scarecrow, running toward
it with emotion.

"What's that?" A window in the farmhouse was thrown up, and a sleepy
Munchkin thrust out his head. "What are you doing?" he called crossly.

"Thinking!" said the Scarecrow, leaning heavily against the bean pole.

"Well, don't do it out loud," snapped the farmer. Then, catching a better
view of the Scarecrow, he cried in surprise: "Why, it's you! -- Come right in,
my dear fellow, and give us the latest news from the Emerald City. I'll
fetch a candle!"

The farmer was very proud of the Scarecrow. He had made him long ago by
stuffing one of his old suits with straw, painting a jolly face on a sack,
stuffing that, and fastening the two together. Red boots, a hat, and yellow
gloves had finished his man -- and nothing could have been jollier than the
result. Later on, when the Scarecrow had run off with Dorothy and got his
brains from the Wizard of Oz and become ruler of the Emerald City, the little
farmer had felt highly gratified.

The Scarecrow, however, was not in a humor for conversation. He wanted to
think in peace. "Don't bother!" he called up. "I'm going to spend the night
here. I'll see you in the morning."

"All right! Take care of yourself," yawned the farmer, and drew in his head.

For a long time the Scarecrow stood perfectly still beside the bean pole --
thinking. Then he got a spade from the shed and began clearing away the
cornstalks and dried leaves from around the base of the pole. It was slow
work, for his fingers were clumsy, but he persevered. Then a wonderful idea
came to him.

"Perhaps if I dig down a bit, I may discover --" He got no further, for at the
word "discover," he pushed the spade down with all his might. There was a loud
crash. The bottom dropped out of things, and the Scarecrow fell through.

"Gr-eat cornstalks!" cried the Scarecrow, throwing up his arms. To his surprise,
they came in contact with a stout pole, which he embraced. It was a lifesaver,
for he was shooting down into the darkness at a great rate.

"Why!" he gasped as soon as he regained his breath, for he was falling at a
terrific rate of speed, "Why, I believe I'm sliding down the bean pole!"



CHAPTER 3

DOWN THE MAGIC BEAN POLE


Hugging the bean pole for dear life, the Scarecrow slid rapidly downward,
Everything was dark, but at times a confused roaring sounded in his ears.

"Father, I hear something falling past!" shouted a gruff voice all at once.

"Then reach out and pull it in," growled a still deeper voice. There was a
flash of light, a door opened suddenly, and a giant hand snatched the air
just above the Scarecrow's head.

"It's a good thing I haven't a heart to fail me," murmured the Scarecrow,
glancing up fearfully and clinging more tightly to the pole. "Though I
fall, I shall not falter. But where under the earth am I falling to?" At
that minute, a door opened far below, and someone called up:

"Who are you? Have out your toll and be ready to salute the Royal Ruler of
the Middlings!"

The Scarecrow had learned in the course of his many and strange adventures
that it was best to accede to every request that was reasonable or possible. 
Realizing that unless he answered at once he would fall past his strange 
questioners, he shouted amiably:

"I am the Scarecrow of Oz, sliding down my family tree!" The words echoed 
oddly in the narrow passageway, and by the time he reached the word "tree" the 
Scarecrow could make out two large brown men leaning from a door somewhere 
below. Next minute he came to a sharp stop. A board had shot out and closed 
off the passageway. So sudden was the stop that the Scarecrow was tossed 
violently upward. While he endeavored to regain his balance, the two Middlings 
eyed him curiously.

"So this is the kind of thing they grow on top," said one, holding a lantern
close to the Scarecrow's head.

"Toll, Toll!" droned the other, holding out a horribly twisted hand.

"One moment, your Royal Middleness!" cried the Scarecrow, backing as far away 
from the lantern as he could, for with a straw stuffing one cannot be too 
careful of fire. He felt in his pocket for an emerald he had picked up in the 
Emerald City a few days before and handed it gingerly to the Muddy monarch.

"Why do you call me Middleness?" the King demanded angrily, taking the
emerald.

"Is your kingdom not in the middle of the earth, and are you not royalty?
What could be more proper than Royal Middleness?" asked the Scarecrow,
flecking the dust from his hat.

Now that he had a better view, he saw that the two were entirely men of mud,
and very roughly put together. Dried grass hair stood erect upon each head,
and their faces were large and lumpy and had a disconcerting way of changing
shape. Indeed, when the King leaned over to examine the Scarecrow, his
features were so soft they seemed to run into his cheek, which hung down
alarmingly, while his nose turned sideways and lengthened at least an inch!

Muddle pushed the King's nose back and began spreading his cheek into place.
Instead of hands and feet, the Middlings had gnarled and twisted roots
which curled up in a perfectly terrifying manner. Their teeth were gold,
and their eyes shone like small electric lights. They wore stiff coats of
dried mud, buttoned clumsily with lumps of coal, and the King had a tall
mud crown. Altogether, the Scarecrow thought he had never seen more
disagreeable looking creatures.

"What he needs," spluttered the King, fingering the jewel greedily, "is a
coat of mud! Shall we pull him in, Muddle?"

"He's very poorly made, your Mudjesty. Can you work, Carescrow?" asked
Muddle, thumping him rudely in the chest.

"Scarecrow, if you please!" The Scarecrow drew himself up and spoke with
great difficulty. "I can work with my head!" he added proudly.

"Your head!" roared the King. "Did you hear that, Muddle? He works with his
head. What's the matter with your hands?" Again the King lunged forward, and 
this time his face fell on the other side and had bulged enormously before 
Muddle could pat it into shape. They began whispering excitedly together, but 
the Scarecrow made no reply, for looking over their shoulder he glimpsed a 
dark, forbidding cavern lighted only by the flashing red eyes of thousands of 
Middlings. They appeared to be digging, and above the rattle of the shovels 
and picks came the hoarse voice of one of them singing the Middling National 
Air. Or so the Scarecrow gathered from the words:

    "Oh, chop the brown clods as they fall with a thud!
    Three croaks for the Middlings, who stick in the Mud.
    Oh, mud, rich and wormy! Oh, mud, sweet and squirmy!
    Oh what is so lovely as Mud! Oh what is so lovely as Mud!
    Three croaks for the Middlings, who delve all the day
    In their beautiful Kingdom of soft mud and clay!"

The croaks that came at the end of the song were so terrifying that the
Scarecrow shivered in spite of himself.

"Ugh! Hardly a place for a pleasant visit!" he gasped, flattening himself
against the wall of the passage. Feeling that matters had gone far enough, he
repeated in a loud voice:

"I am the Scarecrow of Oz and desire to continue my fall. I have paid my toll
and unless your Royal Middleness release me --"

"Might as well drop him -- a useless creature!" whispered Muddle, and
before the King had time to object, he jerked the board back. "Fall on!" he
screeched maliciously, and the Scarecrow shot down into the darkness, the
hoarse screams of the two Middlings echoing after him through the gloom.

No use trying to think! The poor Scarecrow bumped and banged from side to side
of the passage. It was all he could do to keep hold of the bean pole, so
swiftly was he falling.

"A good thing I'm not made of meat like little Dorothy," he wheezed
breathlessly. His gloves were getting worn through from friction with the
pole, and the rush of air past his ears was so confusing that he gave up all 
idea of thinking. Even magic brains refuse to work under such conditions. Down 
-- down -- down he plunged till he lost all count of time. Down -- down - 
down -- hours and hours! Would he never stop? Then suddenly it grew quite
light, and he flashed through what appeared to be a hole in the roof of a huge 
silver palace, whirled down several stories and landed in a heap on the floor 
of a great hall. In one hand he clutched a small fan, and in the other a 
parasol that had snapped off the beanstalk just before he reached the palace 
roof.

Shaken and bent over double though he was, the Scarecrow could see that he
had fallen into a company of great magnificence. He had a confused glimpse
of silken clad courtiers, embroidered screens, inlaid floors, and flashing
silver lanterns, when there was a thundering bang that hurled him halfway to 
the roof again. Falling to a sitting position and still clinging to the bean 
pole, he saw two giant kettle drums nearby, still vibrating from the terrible 
blows they had received.

The company were staring at him solemnly, and as he attempted to rise, they
fell prostrate on their faces. Up flew the poor flimsy Scarecrow again, such
was the draught, and this time landed on his face. He was beginning to feel
terribly annoyed, but before he could open his mouth or stand up, a deep voice
boomed:

"He has come!"

"He has come!" shrilled the rest of the company, thumping their heads on the
stone floor. The language seemed strange to the Scarecrow, but oddly enough, 
he could understand it perfectly. Keeping a tight grasp on the bean pole, he 
gazed at the prostrate assemblage, too astonished to speak. They looked 
exactly like the pictures of some Chinamen he had seen in one of Dorothy's 
picture books back in Oz, but instead of being yellow, their skin was a 
curious gray, and the hair of old and young alike was silver and worn in long, 
stiff queues. Before he had time to observe any more, an old, old courtier 
hobbled forward and beckoned imperiously to a page at the door. The page 
immediately unfurled a huge silk umbrella and, running forward, held it over 
the Scarecrow's head.

"Welcome home, sublime and noble Ancestor! Welcome, honorable and exalted
Sir." The old gentleman made several deep salaams.

"Welcome, immortal and illustrious Ancestor! Welcome, ancient and serene
Father!" cried the others, banging their heads hard on the floor -- so hard
that their queues flew into the air.

"Ancestor! Father!" mumbled the Scarecrow in a puzzled voice. Then,
collecting himself somewhat, he made a deep bow, and sweeping off his hat
with a truly royal gesture began: "I am indeed honored --" But he got no
farther. The silken clad courtiers sprang to their feet in a frenzy of joy.
A dozen seized him bodily and carried him to a great silver throne room.

"The same beautiful voice!" cried the ancient gentleman, clasping his hands
in an ecstasy of feeling.

"It is he! The Emperor! The Emperor has returned! Long live the Emperor!"
shouted everyone at once. The confusion grew worse and worse.

"Ancestor! Father! Emperor!" The Scarecrow could scarcely believe his ears.
"For a fallen man, I am rising like yeast!" he murmured to himself. Half a
dozen courtiers had run outdoors to spread the wonderful news, and soon
silver gongs and bells began ringing all over the kingdom, and cries of
"The Emperor! The Emperor!" added to the general excitement. Holding fast
to the sides of the throne and still grasping the little fan and parasol,
the Scarecrow sat blinking with embarrassment.

"If they would just stop emperoring, I could ask them who I am," thought the
poor Scarecrow. As if in answer to his thoughts, the tottery old nobleman
raised his long arm, and at once the hall became absolutely silent.

"Now!" sighed the Scarecrow, leaning forward. "Now I shall hear something of
interest."



CHAPTER 4

DOROTHY'S LONELY BREAKFAST


Dorothy, who occupied one of the coziest apartments in Ozma's palace, wakened 
the morning after the party with a feeling of great uneasiness. At breakfast, 
the Scarecrow was missing. Although he, the Tin Woodman and Scraps did not 
require food, they always livened up the table with their conversation. 
Ordinarily Dorothy would have thought nothing of the Scarecrow's absence, but 
she could not forget his distressed expression when Professor Wogglebug had so 
rudely remarked on his family tree. The Professor himself had left before 
breakfast, and everybody but Dorothy had forgotten all about the Royal Book 
of Oz.

Already many of Ozma's guests who did not live in the palace were preparing
to depart, but Dorothy could not get over her feeling of uneasiness. The
Scarecrow was her very best friend, and it was not like him to go without
saying goodbye. So she hunted through the gardens and in every room of the
palace and questioned all the servants. Unfortunately, Jellia Jamb, who was
the only one who had seen the Scarecrow go, was with her mistress. Ozma
always breakfasted alone and spent the morning over state matters. Knowing
how busy she was, Dorothy did not like to disturb her. Betsy Bobbin and
Trot, real little girls like Dorothy, also lived in the Fairy palace, and
Ozma was a great chum for them. But the Kingdom of Oz had to be governed in
between times, and they all knew that unless Ozma had the mornings to
herself, she could not play with them in the afternoons. So Dorothy
searched by herself.

"Perhaps I didn't look hard enough," thought the little girl, and searched
the palace all over again.

"Don't worry," advised the Tin Woodman, who was playing checkers with
Scraps. "He's probably gone home."

    "He is a man of brains; why worry
     Because he's left us in a hurry?"

chuckled Scraps with a careless wave of her hand, and Dorothy, laughing in
spite of herself, ran out to have another look in the garden.

"That is just what he has done, and if I hurry, I may overtake him. Anyway,
I believe I'll go and pay him a visit," thought Dorothy.

Trot and Betsy Bobbin were swinging in one of the royal hammocks, and when
Dorothy invited them to go along, they explained that they were going on a
picnic with the Tin Woodman. So without waiting to ask anyone else or even
whistling for Toto, her little dog, Dorothy skipped out of the garden.

The Cowardly Lion, half asleep under a rose bush, caught a glimpse of her blue
dress flashing by, and bounding to his feet thudded after her.

"Where are you going?" he asked, stifling a giant yawn.

"To visit the Scarecrow," explained Dorothy. "He looked so unhappy last
night. I am afraid he is worrying about his family tree, and I thought
p'raps I could cheer him up."

The Cowardly Lion stretched luxuriously. "I'll go too," he rumbled, giving
himself a shake. "But it's the first time I ever heard of the Scarecrow
worrying."

"But you see," Dorothy said gently, "Professor Wogglebug told him he had no
family."

"Family! Family fiddlesticks! Hasn't he got us?" The Cowardly Lion stopped
and waved his tail indignantly.

"Why, you dear old thing!" Dorothy threw her arms around his neck. "You've
given me a lovely idea!" The Cowardly Lion tried not to look pleased.

"Well, as long as I've given it to you, you might tell me what it is," he
suggested mildly.

"Why," said Dorothy, skipping along happily, "we'll let him adopt us and be
his really relations. I'll be his sister, and you'll be --"

"His cousin -- that is, if you think he wouldn't mind having a great coward
like me for a cousin," finished the Cowardly Lion in an anxious voice.

"Do you still feel as cowardly as ever?" asked Dorothy sympathetically.

"More so!" sighed the great beast, glancing appre-hensively over his
shoulder. This made Dorothy laugh, for although the lion trembled like a
cup custard at the approach of danger, he always managed to fight with
great valor, and the little girl felt safer with him than with the whole
army of Oz, who never were frightened but who always ran away.

Now anyone who is at all familiar with his geozify knows that the Fairyland
of Oz is divided into four parts, exactly like a parchesi board, with the
Emerald City in the very center, the purple Gillikin Country to the north,
the red Quadling Country to the south, the blue Munchkin Country to the
east, and the yellow Country of the Winkies to the west. It was toward the
west that Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion turned their steps, for it was in
the Winkie Country that the Scarecrow had built his gorgeous golden tower
in exactly the shape of a huge ear of corn.

Dorothy ran along beside the Cowardly Lion, chatting over their many
adventures in Oz, and stopping now and then to pick buttercups and daisies
that dotted the roadside. She tied a big bunch to the tip of her friend's tail
and twined some more in his mane, so that he presented a very festive
appearance indeed. Then, when she grew tired, she climbed on his big back, and
swiftly they jogged through the pleasant land of the Winkies. The people waved
to them from windows and fields, for everyone loved little Dorothy and the big
lion, and as they passed a neat yellow cottage, a little Winkie Lady came
running down the path with a cup of tea in one hand and a bucket in the other.

"I saw you coming and thought you might be thirsty," she called hospitably.
Dorothy drank her cup without alighting.

"We're in an awful hurry; we're visiting the Scarecrow," she exclaimed
apologetically. The lion drank his bucket of tea at one gulp. It was so hot
that it made his eyes water.

"How I loathe tea! If I hadn't been such a coward, I'd have upset the bucket,"
groaned the lion as the little Winkie Lady went back into her house. "But no,
I was afraid of hurting her feelings. Ugh, what a terrible thing it is to be a
coward!"

"Nonsense!" said Dorothy, wiping her eyes with her handkerchief. "You're not
a coward, you're just polite. But let's run very fast so we can reach the
Scarecrow's in time for lunch."

So like the wind away raced the Cowardly Lion, Dorothy holding fast to his
mane, with her curls blowing straight out behind, and in exactly two Oz
hours and seventeen Winkie minutes they came to the dazzling corn-ear
residence of their old friend. Hurrying through the cornfields that
surrounded his singular mansion, Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion rushed
through the open door.

"We've come for lunch," announced Dorothy.

"And I'm hungry enough to eat crow," rumbled the lion. Then both stopped in
dismay, for the big reception room was empty. From a room above came a
shuffling of feet, and Blink, the Scarecrow's gentlemanly housekeeper, came
running down the stairs.

"Where's the Scarecrow?" asked Dorothy anxiously. "Isn't he here?"

"Here! Isn't he there? Isn't he in the Emerald City?" gasped the little
Winkie, putting his specs on upside down.

"No -- at least, I don't think so. Oh, dear, I just felt that something had
happened to him!" wailed Dorothy, sinking into an ebony armchair and
fanning herself with a silk sofa cushion.

"Now don't be alarmed." The Cowardly Lion rushed to Dorothy's side and
knocked three vases and a clock off a little table, just to show how calm
he was. "Think of his brains! The Scarecrow has never come to harm yet, and
all we have to do is to return to the Emerald City and look in Ozma's Magic
Picture. Then, when we know where he is, we can go and find him and tell
him about our little adoption plan," he added, looking hopefully at Dorothy.

"The Scarecrow himself couldn't have spoken more sensi-bly," observed Blink
with a great sigh of relief, and even Dorothy felt better.

In Ozma's palace, as many of you know, there is a Magic Picture, and when
Ozma or Dorothy want to see any of their friends, they have merely to wish
to see them, and instantly the picture shows the person wished for and
exactly what he is doing at that certain time.

"Of course!" sighed Dorothy. "Why didn't I think of it myself?"

"Better have some lunch before you start back," suggested Blink, and
bustling about had soon set out an appetizing repast. Dorothy was too busy
worrying about the Scarecrow to have much appetite, but the Cowardly Lion
swallowed seventeen roasts and a bucket of corn syrup.

"To give me courage!" he explained to Dorothy, licking his chops. "There's
nothing that makes me so cowardly as an empty stomach!"

It was quite late in the afternoon before they could get away. Blink
insisted on putting up a lunch, and it took some time to make enough
sandwiches for the Cowardly Lion. But at last it was ready and packed into
an old hat box belonging to Mops, the Scarecrow's cook. Then Dorothy,
balancing the box carefully on her lap, climbed on the Cowardly Lion's
back, and assuring Blink that they would return in a few days with his
master, they bade him farewell. Blink almost spoiled things by bursting
into tears, but he managed to restrain himself long enough to say goodbye,
and Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion, feeling a little solemn themselves,
started toward the Emerald City.

"My, but it's growing dark," said Dorothy after they had gone several miles.
"I believe it's going to storm."

Scarcely had she finished speaking before there was a terrific crash of
thunder. The Cowardly Lion promptly sat down. Off of his back bounced the
sandwich box and into the sandwich box rolled Dorothy, head first.

"How terribly upsetting," coughed the Cowardly Lion.

"I should say it was!" Dorothy crawled indignantly out of the hat box and
began wiping the butter from her nose. "You've simply ruined the supper!"

"It was my heart," explained the Cowardly Lion sorrowfully. "It jumped so
hard that it upset me, but climb on my back again, and I'll run very fast
to some place of shelter."

"But where are you?" Dorothy asked in real alarm, for it had grown
absolutely dark.

"Here," quavered the Cowardly Lion, and guided by his voice, Dorothy
stumbled over to him and climbed again on his back. One crash of thunder
followed another, and at each crash the Cowardly Lion leapt forward a bit
faster until they fairly flew through the dark.

"It won't take us long to reach the Emerald City at this rate!" called
Dorothy, but the wind tossed the words far behind her, and seeing that
conversation was impossible, she clung fast to the lion's mane and began
thinking about the Scarecrow. The thunder continued at frequent intervals, but 
there was no rain, and after they had been running for what seemed to Dorothy 
hours and hours, a sudden terrific bump sent her flying over the lion's head 
into a bush. Too breathless to speak, she felt herself carefully all over. 
Then, finding that she was still in one piece, she called to the Cowardly 
Lion. She could hear him moaning and muttering about his heart.

"Any bones broken?" she asked anxiously.

"Only my head," groaned the lion dismally. Just then the darkness lifted as
suddenly as it had fallen, and Dorothy saw him leaning against a tree with
his eyes closed. There was a big bump on his head. With a little cry of
sympathy, Dorothy hurried toward him, when all at once something strange
about their surroundings struck her.

"Why, where are we?" cried the little girl, stopping short. The lion's eyes
flew open, and forgetting all about his bump, he looked around in dismay.
No sign of the Emerald City anywhere. Indeed, they were in a great, dim
forest, and considering the number of trees, it is a wonder that they had
not run into one long ago.

"I must have run the wrong way," faltered the Cowardly Lion in a distressed
voice.

"You couldn't help that; anyone would lose his way in the dark," said Dorothy 
generously. "But I wish we hadn't fallen in the sandwiches. I'm hungry!"

"So am I. Do you think anyone lives in this forest, Dorothy?"

Dorothy did not answer, for just then she caught sight of a big sign nailed
to one of the trees.

"Turn to the right," directed the sign.

"Oh, come on!" cried Dorothy, cheering up immediately. "I believe we're
going to have another adventure."

"I'd rather have some supper," sighed the Cowardly Lion wistfully, "but
unless we want to spend the night here, we might as well move along. I'm to
be fed up on adventure, I suppose."

"Turn to the left," advised the next sign, and the two turned obediently and
hurried on, trying to keep a straight course through the trees. In a
Fairyland like Oz, where there are no trains or trolleys or even horses for
traveling ('cepting Ozma's sawhorse), there are bound to be unexplored
portions. And though Dorothy had been at one time or another in almost
every part of Oz, the country through which they were now passing was
totally unfamiliar to her. Night was coming on, and it was growing so dark
that she could hardly read the third sign when they presently came upon it.

"Don't sing," directed the sign sternly.

"Sing!" snapped Dorothy indignantly, "Who wants to sing?"

"We might as well keep to the left," said the Cowardly Lion in a resigned
voice, and they walked along for some time in silence. The trees were
thinning out, and as they came to the edge of the forest, another sign
confronted them.

"Slow down," read Dorothy with great difficulty. "What nonsense! If we slow
down, how shall we ever get anywhere?"

"Wait a minute," mused the Cowardly Lion, half closing his eyes. "Aren't
there two roads just ahead, one going up and one going down? We're to take
the down road, I suppose. 'Slow down,' isn't that what it says?"

Slow down it surely was, for the road was so steep and full of stones that
Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion had to pick their way with utmost care. But
even bad roads must end somewhere, and coming suddenly to the edge of the
woods, they saw a great city lying just below. A dim light burned over the
main gate, and toward this the Cowardly Lion and Dorothy hurried as fast as
they could. This was not very fast, for an unaccountable drowsiness was
stealing over them.

Slowly and more slowly, the tired little girl and her great four-footed
companion advanced toward the dimly lighted gate. They were so drowsy that
they had ceased to talk. But they dragged on.

"Hah, hoh, hum!" yawned the Cowardly Lion. "What makes my feet so heavy?"

He stopped short and examined each of his four feet sleepily.

Dorothy swallowed a yawn and tried to run, but a walk was all she could 
manage.

"Hah, hoh, hum!" she gaped, stumbling along with her eyes closed.

By the time they had reached the gate, they were yawning so hard that the
Cowardly Lion had nearly dislocated his jaw, and Dorothy was perfectly
breathless. Holding to the lion's mane to steady herself, Dorothy blinked
up uncertainly at the sign over the gate.

"Hah -- here we are -- Hoh!" She held her hand wearily before her mouth.

Then, with a great effort, she read the words of the sign.

"Um -- Great -- Grand and Mighty Slow Kingdom of Pokes! Uh-hah -- Pokes! Do
you hear? Hah, hoh, hu, uum!"

Dorothy looked about in alarm, despite her sleepiness.

"Do you hear?" she repeated anxiously as no answer came through the gloom.

The Cowardly Lion did not hear. He had fallen down and was fast asleep, and so
in another minute was Dorothy, her head pillowed against his kind,
comfortable, cowardly heart. Fast asleep at the gates of a strange gray city!



CHAPTER 5

SIR HOKUS OF POKES


It was long past sunup before Dorothy awoke. She rubbed her eyes, yawned
once or twice, and then shook the Cowardly Lion. The gates of the city were
open, and although it looked even grayer in the daytime than it looked at
night, the travelers were too hungry to be particular. A large placard was
posted just inside:

    THIS IS POKES!
    DON'T RUN!
    DON'T SING!
    TALK SLOWLY!
    DON'T WHISTLE!
               Order of the Chief Poker.

read Dorothy. "How cheerful! Hah, hoh, hum-mm!"

"Don't!" begged the Cowardly Lion with tears in his eyes. "If I yawn again,
I'll swallow my tail, and if I don't have something to eat soon, I'll do it
anyway. Let's hurry! There's something queer about this place, Dorothy! Ah,
hah, hoh, hum-mm!"

Stifling their yawns, the two started down the long, narrow street. The
houses were of gray stone, tall and stiff with tiny barred windows. It was
absolutely quiet, and not a person was in sight. But when they turned the
corner, they saw a crowd of queer-looking people creeping toward them.
These singular individuals stopped between each step and stood perfectly
still, and Dorothy was so surprised at their unusual appearance that she
laughed right in the middle of a yawn.

In the first place, they never lifted their feet, but pushed them along like
skates. The women were dressed in gray polka-dot dresses with huge poke
bonnets that almost hid their fat, sleepy, wide-mouthed faces. Most of them
had pet snails on strings, and so slowly did they move that it looked as
though the snails were tugging them along.

The men were dressed like a party of congressmen, but instead of high hats
wore large red nightcaps, and they were all as solemn as owls. It seemed
impossible for them to keep both eyes open at the same time, and at first
Dorothy thought they were winking at her. But as the whole company continued
to stare fixedly with one open eye, she burst out laughing. At the unexpected
sound (for no one had ever laughed in Pokes before), the women picked up their
snails in a great fright, and the men clapped their fingers to their ears or
to the places where their ears were under the red nightcaps.

"These must be the Slow Pokes," giggled Dorothy, nudging the Cowardly Lion.
"Let's go to meet them, for they'll never reach us at the rate they are
coming!"

"There's something wrong with my feet," rumbled the Cowardly Lion without
looking up. "Hah, hoh, hum! What's the use of hurrying?" The fact of the
matter was that they couldn't hurry if they tried. Indeed, they could
hardly lift their feet at all.

"I wish the Scarecrow were with us," sighed the Cowardly Lion, shuffling along
unhappily. "He never grows sleepy, and he always knows what to do."

"No use wishing," yawned Dorothy. "I only hope he's not as lost as we are."

By struggling hard, they just managed to keep moving, and by the time they
came up with the Slow Pokes, they were completely worn out. A cross-looking
Poke held up his arm threateningly, and Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion
stopped.

"You --" said the Poke; then closed his mouth and stood staring
vacantly for a whole minute.

"Are --" He brought out the word with a perfectly enormous yawn, and Dorothy
began fanning the Cowardly Lion with her hat, for he showed signs of falling
asleep again.

"What?" she asked crossly.

"Under --" sighed the Poke after a long pause, and Dorothy, seeing that
there was no hurrying him, began counting to herself. Just as she reached
sixty, the Poke pushed back his red nightcap and shouted:

"Arrest!"

"Arrest!" shouted all the other Pokes so loud that the Cowardly Lion roused
himself with a start, and the pet snails stuck out their heads.
"A rest? A rest is not what we want! We want breakfast!" growled the lion
irritably and started to roar, but a yawn spoiled it. (One simply cannot
look fierce by yawning.)

"You --" began the Poke. But Dorothy could not stand hearing the same
slow speech again. Putting her fingers in her ears, she shouted back:

"What for?"

The Pokes regarded her sternly. Some even opened both eyes. Then the one who
had first addressed the, covering a terrific gape with one hand, pointed
with the other to a sign on a large post at the corner of the street.

    "Speed limit 1/4 mile an hour" said the sign.

"We're arrested for speeding!" shouted Dorothy in the Cowardly Lion's ear.

"Did you say feeding?" asked the poor lion, waking up with a start. "If I go
to sleep again before I'm fed, I'll starve to death!"

"Then keep awake," yawned Dorothy. By this time, the Pokes had surrounded
them and were waving them imperiously ahead. They looked so threatening
that Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion began to creep in the direction of a
gloomy, gray castle. Of the journey neither of them remembered a thing, for
with the gaping and yawning Pokes it was almost impossible to keep awake.
But they must have walked in their sleep, for the next thing Dorothy knew,
a harsh voice called slowly:

"Poke -- him!"

Greatly alarmed, Dorothy opened her eyes. They were in a huge stone hall
hung all over with rusty armor, and seated on a great stone chair, snoring
so loudly that all the steel helmets rattled, was a Knight. The tallest and
crossest of the Pokes rushed at him with a long poker, giving him such a
shove that he sprawled to the floor.

"So --" yawned the Cowardly Lion, awakened by the clatter, "Knight has
fallen!"

"Prisoners -- Sir Hokus!" shouted the Chief Poker, lifting the Knight's plume
and speaking into the helmet as if he were telephoning.

The Knight arose with great dignity, and after straightening his armor, let
down his visor, and Dorothy saw a kind, timid face with melancholy blue
eyes -- not at all Pokish, as she explained to Ozma later.

"What means this unwonted clamor?" asked Sir Hokus, peering curiously at the
prisoners.

"We're sorry to waken you," said Dorothy politely, "but could you please
give us some breakfast?"

"A lot!" added the Cowardly Lion, licking his chops.

"It's safer for me to sing," said the Knight mournfully, and throwing back
his head, he roared in a high, hoarse voice:

    "Don't yawn! Don't yawn!
    We're out of breath --
    Begone -- BEGONE
    Or die the death!"

The Cowardly Lion growled threateningly and began lashing his tail.

"If he weren't in a can, I'd eat him," he rumbled, "but I never could abide
tinned meat."

"He's not in a can, he's in armor," explained Dorothy, too interested to pay
much attention to the Cowardly Lion, for at the first note of the Knight's
song, the Pokes began scowling horribly, and by the time he had finished
they were backing out of the room faster than Dorothy ever imagined they
could go.

"So that's why the sign said don't sing," thought Dorothy to herself. The
air seemed clearer somehow, and she no longer felt sleepy.

When the last Poke had disappeared, the Knight sighed and climbed gravely
back on his stone chair.

"My singing makes them very wroth. In faith, they cannot endure music; it
wakens them," explained Sir Hokus. "But hold, 'twas food you asked of me.
Breakfast, I believe you called it." With an uneasy glance at the Cowardly
Lion, who was sniffing the air hungrily, the Knight banged on his steel armor
with his sword, and a fat, lazy Poke shuffled slowly into the hall.

"Pid, bring the stew," roared Sir Hokus as the Poke stood blinking at them
dully.

"Stew, Pid!" he repeated loudly, and began to hum under his breath,
at which Pid fairly ran out of the room, returning in a few minutes with a
large yellow bowl. This he handed ungraciously to Dorothy. Then he brought
a great copper tub of the stuff for the Cowardly Lion and retired sulkily.

Dorothy thought she had never tasted anything more delicious. The Cowardly
Lion was gulping down his share with closed eyes, and both, I am very sorry
to say, forgot even to thank Sir Hokus.

"Are you perchance a damsel in distress?"

Quite startled, Dorothy looked up from her bowl and saw the Knight regarding
her wistfully.

"She's in Pokes, and that's the same thing," said the Cowardly Lion without
opening his eyes.

"We're lost," began the little girl, "but --"

There was something so quaint and gentle about the Knight, that she soon found
herself talking to him like an old friend. She told him all of their
adventures since leaving the Emerald City and even told about the
disappearance of the Scarecrow.

"Passing strange, yet how refreshing," murmured Sir Hokus. "And if I seem a
little behind times, you must not blame me. For centuries, I have dozed in
this gray castle, and it cometh over me that things have greatly changed.
This beast now, he talks quite manfully, and this Kingdom that you mention,
this Oz? Never heard of it!"

"Never heard of Oz?" gasped the little girl. "Why, you're a subject of Oz,
and Pokes is in Oz, though I don't know just where."

Here Dorothy gave him a short history of the Fairy country, and of the many
adventures she had had since she had come there. Sir Hokus listened with
growing melancholy.

"To think," he sighed mournfully, "that I was prisoner here while all that
was happening!"

"Are you a prisoner?" asked Dorothy in surprise. "I thought you were
King of the Pokes!"

"Uds daggers!" thundered Sir Hokus so suddenly that Dorothy jumped. "I am a
knight!"

Seeing her startled expression, he controlled himself. "I was a knight," he
continued brokenly. "Long centuries ago, mounted on my goodly steed, I fared
from my father's castle to offer my sword to a mighty king. His name?" Sir
Hokus tapped his forehead uncertainly. "Go to, I have forgot."

"Could it have been King Arthur?" exclaimed Dorothy, wide-eyed with interest.
"Why, just think of your being still alive!"

"That's just the point," choked the Knight. "I've been alive -- still, so
still that I've forgotten everything. Why, I can't even remember how I used
to talk," he confessed miserably.

"But how did you get here?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion, who did not like being
left out of the conversation.

"I had barely left my father's castle before I met a stranger," said Sir
Hokus, sitting up very straight, "who challenged me to battle. I spurred my
horse forward, our lances met, and the stranger was unseated. But by my faith,
'twas no mortal Knight." Sir Hokus sighed deeply and lapsed into silence.

"What happened?" asked Dorothy curiously, for Sir Hokus seemed to have
forgotten them.

"The Knight," said he with another mighty sigh, "struck the ground with his
lance and cried, 'Live Wretch, for centuries in the stupidest country out
of the world,' and disappeared. And here -- here I am!" With a despairing
gesture, Sir Hokus arose, big tears splashing down his armor.

"I feel that I am brave, very brave, but how am I to know until I have
encountered danger? Ah, friends, behold in me a Knight who has never had a
real adventure, never killed a dragon, nor championed a Lady, nor gone on a
Quest!"

Dropping on his knees before the little girl, Sir Hokus took her hand. "Let
me go with you on this Quest for the valiant Scarecrow. Let me be your good
Night!" he begged eagerly.

"Good night," coughed the Cowardly Lion, who, to tell the truth, was feeling
a bit jealous. But Dorothy was thrilled, and as Sir Hokus continued to look
at her pleadingly, she took off her hair ribbon and bound it 'round his arm.

"You shall be my own true Knight, and I your Lady Fair!" she announced
solemnly, and exactly as she had read in books.

At this interesting juncture the Cowardly Lion gave a tremendous yawn, and
Sir Hokus with an exclamation of alarm jumped to his feet. The Pokes had
returned to the hall, and Dorothy felt herself falling asleep again.

    Up, up, my lieges and away!
    We take the field again --
    For Ladies fair we fight today
    And KING! Up, up, my merry men!

shrilled the Knight as if he were leading an army to battle. The Pokes
opened both eyes, but did not immediately retire. Sir Hokus bravely
swallowed a yawn and hastily clearing his throat shouted another song,
which he evidently made up on the spur of the moment:

    Avaunt! Be off! Be gone - Methinks
    We'll be asleep in forty winks!

This time the Pokes left sullenly, but the effect of their presence had thrown 
Dorothy, the Cowardly Lion, and the Knight into a violent fit of the gapes.

"If I fall asleep, nothing can save you," said Sir Hokus in an agitated
voice. "Hah, hoh, hum! Hah --!"

The Knight's eyes closed.

"Don't do it, don't do it!" begged Dorothy, shaking him violently. "Can't we
run away?"

"I've been trying for five centuries," wailed the Knight in a discouraged
voice, "but I always fall asleep before I reach the gate, and they bring me
back here. They're rather fond of me in their slow way," he added
apologetically.

"Couldn't you keep singing?" asked the Cowardly Lion anxiously, for the
prospect of a five-century stay in Pokes was more than he could bear.

"Couldn't we all sing?" suggested Dorothy. "Surely all three of us won't
fall asleep at once."

"I'm not much of a singer," groaned the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble,
"but I'm willing to do my share!"

"I like you," said Sir Hokus, going over and thumping the Cowardly Lion
approvingly on the back. "You ought to be knighted!"

The lion blinked his eyes, for Sir Hokus' iron fist bruised him severely,
but knowing it was kindly meant, he bore it bravely.

"I am henceforth a beknighted lion," he whispered to Dorothy while Sir Hokus
was straightening his armor. Next the Knight took down an iron poker, which he
handed to Dorothy.

"To wake us up with," he explained. "And now, Lady Dorothy, if you are ready,
we will start on the Quest for the honorable Scarecrow, and remember,
everybody sing -- Sing for your life!"



CHAPTER 6

SINGING THEIR WAY OUT OF POKES


Taking a deep breath, Sir Hokus, the Cowardly Lion and Dorothy burst out of
the hall singing at the top of their voices.

"Three blind mice --!" sang Dorothy.

"Across the plain!" shouted Sir Hokus.

"I am the Cowardly Lion of Oz!" roared the lion.

The Pokes were so taken aback at the horrid sounds that they ran scurrying
right and left. In another minute the three were out of the castle and
singing their way through the gloomy garden. Dorothy stuck to the Three
Blind Mice. Sir Hokus sang verse after verse of an old English ballad, and
the Cowardly Lion roared and gurgled a song of his own making, which,
considering it was a first attempt, was not so bad:

    I am the Cowardly Lion of Oz!
    Be good! Begone! Beware! Becoz
    When I am scared full fierce I be;
    Br--rah--grr--ruff, look out for me!

The Pokes stumbled this way and that, and all went well until they rushed
into a company of Pokes who were playing croquet. The slowness with which
they raised their mallets fascinated Dorothy, and she stopped to watch them
in spite of herself.

"Don't stop! Sing!" growled the Cowardly Lion in the middle of a line. To
make up for lost time, Dorothy closed her eyes and sang harder than ever,
but alas! next instant she fell over a wicket, which so deprived her of
breath that she could barely scramble up, let alone sing. As soon as she
stopped singing, the Pokes paused in their flight, and as soon as they
paused Dorothy began to gape. Singing for dear life, Sir Hokus jerked
Dorothy by the arm, and the Cowardly Lion roared so loud that the Pokes
covered their ears and began backing away.

"There was a Knight! Come on, come on!" sang Sir Hokus, and Dorothy came,
and in a few minutes was able to take up the "Three Blind Mice" again. But
running and singing at the same time is not an easy task. And running
through Pokes is like trying to run through water. (You know how hard that
is?)

"Three Blind Mice -- uh -- hah -- Three Blind -- Mice -- uh-hah -- I
can't sing another note! Thu -- ree--!" gasped poor Dorothy, stumbling
along, while the Cowardly Lion was puffing like an engine. The Pokes in the
garden had recovered from their first alarm and were following at a safe
distance. The gates of the city were only a short distance off, but it
seemed to Dorothy that she could not go another step.

A large group of Pokes had gathered at the gates, and unless they could sing
their way through, they would fall asleep and be carried ignominiously back
to the castle.

"Now!" wheezed Sir Hokus, "Remember, it is for the Scarecrow!" All of them
swallowed, took a deep breath, and put their last remaining strength into
their voices. But a wily Poke who had stuffed some cotton in his ears now
approached pushing a little cart.

"Take --!" he drawled, and before Dorothy realized what she was doing,
she had accepted a cone from the Poke.

"Hah, hoh, hum! Why, it's hokey pokey!" spluttered Dorothy, and with a deep
sigh of delight she took a large bite of the pink ice cream. How cool it
felt on her dry throat! She opened her mouth for a second taste, yawned
terrifically, and fell with a thud to the stone pavement.

"Dorothy!" wailed Sir Hokus, stopping short in his song and bending over the
little girl. The poor Cowardly Lion gave a gulp of despair and began
running around the two, roaring and singing in a choked voice. The Pokes
nodded to each other in a pleased fashion, and the Chief Poker started
cautiously toward them with a long, thick rope. The Cowardly Lion redoubled
his efforts. Then, seeing Sir Hokus about to fall, he jumped on the Knight
with all his strength. Down crashed Sir Hokus, his armor clanging against
the stones that paved the gateway.

"Sing!" roared the Cowardly Lion, glaring at him fiercely. The fall wakened
the poor Knight, but he had not the strength to rise. Sitting on the hard
stones and looking reproachfully at the Cowardly Lion, he began his ballad
in a half-hearted fashion. The Cowardly Lion's heart was like to burst
between lack of breath and fear, but making one last tremendous effort and
still roaring his song, he bounded at the Chief Poker, seized the rope, and
was back before the stupid creature had time to yawn.

"Tie it around your waist; take Dorothy in your arms!" gasped the Cowardly
Lion out of the corner of his mouth. Sir Hokus, though completely dazed,
had just enough presence of mind to obey, and the next minute the Cowardly
Lion, growling between his teeth like a good fellow, was dashing through
the group of Pokes, the other end of the rope in his mouth.

Bumpety bump -- bump -- bump! Bangety-bang-bang! went Sir Hokus over the
cobbles, holding his helmet with one hand and Dorothy fast in the other arm.
The Pokes fell this way and that, and such was the determination of the
Cowardly Lion that he never stopped till he was out of the gate and halfway
up the rough road they had so recently traveled. Then with a mighty sigh,
he dropped the rope, rolled over and over down the hill, and lay panting
with exhaustion at the bottom.

The bumping over the cobbles had wakened Sir Hokus thoroughly. Indeed, the
poor Knight was black and blue, and his armor dented and scraped
frightfully in important places.

Dorothy, considerably shaken, opened her eyes and began feebly singing "Three
Blind Mice."

"No need," puffed Sir Hokus, lifting her off his lap and rising stiffly.

"Yon noble beast has rescued us."

"Won't the Pokes come up here?" asked Dorothy, staring around a bit dizzily.

"They cannot live out of the kingdom," said the Knight, and Dorothy drew a
big sigh of relief. Sir Hokus, however, was looking very grave.

"I have failed on my first adventure. Had it not been for the Cowardly Lion,
we would now be prisoners in Pokes," he murmured sadly. Then he unfastened the
plume from his helmet. "It beseemeth me not to wear it," sighed the Knight
mournfully, and though Dorothy tried her best to comfort him, he refused to
put it back. Finally, she fastened the plume to her dress, and they went
down to the Cowardly Lion.

There was a little spring nearby, and after they had poured six helmets of
water over his head, the lion opened his eyes. "Been in a good many
fights," gasped the lion, "but I never fought one like this. Singing, bah!"

"Noble Sir, how can I ever repay you?" faltered the Knight. "Alas, that I
have failed in the hour of trial!"

"Why, it wasn't a question of courage at all," rumbled the Cowardly Lion,
greatly embarrassed. "I had the loudest voice and the most breath, that's
all! You got the rough end of it." Sir Hokus looked ruefully at his armor.
The back was entirely squashed.

"Never mind!" said the Knight bravely. "It is the front one presents to the
foe."

"Now you're talking like a real Knight," said Dorothy. "A while ago you
said, 'Yon' and 'beseemeth,' and first thing you know the talk will all
come back to you." Sir Hokus' honest face shone with pleasure.

"Odds bludgeons and truncheons! The little maid is right!" he exclaimed,
striking an attitude. "And once it does, the rest will be easy."

"Don't say rest to me," begged the Cowardly Lion, getting slowly to his
feet. "Hah, hoh, hum! Just to think of it makes me yawn. Now don't you
think we had better start off?"

"If you're rested," began Dorothy. The Cowardly Lion put his paw over his
ear and looked so comical that both Dorothy and Sir Hokus laughed heartily.

"If you're ready," amended Dorothy, and the three adventurers started up the
steep road. "The first thing to do," said the little girl, "is to get back
to the Emerald City as quickly as we can."

At this very minute Glinda, the Good Sorceress of Oz, in her palace in the
Quadling Country, was puzzling over an entry in the Magic Record Book. This
book tells everything that is happening in the world and out, and while it
does not give details, it is a very useful possession.

"The Emperor of the Silver Islands," read Glinda, "has returned to his
people."

"Now who is the Emperor of the Silver Islands?" she asked herself. She
puzzled about it for a long while, and then, deciding that it had nothing
to do with the Fairy Kingdom of Oz, she closed the book and went for a walk
in the palace garden.

Dorothy and Sir Hokus and the Cowardly Lion had meanwhile reached the first
sign in the dim forest, the sign directing travelers to Pokes. Two roads
branched out through the forest, and after much debating they took the wider.

"Do you 'spose this leads to the Emerald City?" asked Cowardly Lion dubiously.

"Time will tell, time will tell," said Sir Hokus cheerfully.

"Yes," murmured the Cowardly Lion, "time will tell. But what?"



CHAPTER 7

THE SCARECROW IS HAILED AS EMPEROR!


Leaning forward on the great throne, the Scarecrow waited impatiently for
the ancient gentleman to speak. The gray-skinned courtiers were eyeing him
expectantly, and just as the suspense became almost unendurable, the old
man threw up his arms and cried sharply:

"The prophecy of the magic beanstalk has been fulfilled. In this radiant and
sublime Scarecrowcus, the spirit of Chang Wang Woe, the mighty, has returned.
And I, the Grand Chew Chew of the realm, prostrate myself before this
wonderful Scarecrowcus, Emperor of the Silver Islands." So, likewise, did all
the company present, and the Scarecrow, taken unawares, flew up several feet
and landed in a heap on the steps leading to the throne. He climbed back
hurriedly, picking up the fan and parasol that he had plucked from the
beanstalk.

"I wish Professor Wogglebug could hear this," said the Scarecrow, settling
himself complacently. "But I must watch out, and remember to hold on."

The Grand Chew Chew was the first to rise, and folding his arms, he asked
solemnly:

"What are your commands, Ancient and Honorable Scarecrowcus?"

"If you'd just omit the Cus," begged the Scarecrow in an embarrassed voice,
"I believe I could think better. Am I in China, or where? Are you Chinamen,
or what?"

"We are Silvermen," said the Grand Chew Chew impressively, "and a much older
race than our Chinese cousins. They are people of the sun. We are people of
the stars. Has your Highness so soon forgotten?"

"I am afraid," said the Scarecrow, rubbing his chin reflectively, "that I
have." He gazed slowly around the great throne room. Ozma's palace itself
was not more dazzling. The floor of dull silver blocks was covered with
rich blue rugs. Furniture, chairs, screens and everything were made of
silver inlaid with precious stones. Filigreed silver lanterns hung from the
high ceilings, and tall silver vases filled with pink and blue blossoms
filled the rooms with their perfume. Blue flags embroidered with silver
stars fluttered from the walls and the tips of the pikebearers' spears, and
silver seemed to be so plentiful that even shoes were fashioned of it.
Faintly through the windows came the sweet tones of a hundred silver chimes,
and altogether the Scarecrow was quite dazed by his apparent good fortune.
Surely they had called him Emperor, but how could that be? He turned to
address the Grand Chew Chew; then as he saw out of the corner of his eye
that the assemblage were making ready to fall upon their faces, he
exclaimed in a hoarse whisper:

"May I speak to you alone?" The Grand Chew Chew waved his hand imperiously,
and the courtiers with a great crackling of silver brocade backed from the
hall.

"Very kind of them to bow, but I wish they wouldn't," sighed the Scarecrow,
sinking back on the great throne. "It blows one about so. I declare, if
another person falls at my feet, I'll have nervous prostration."

Again he took a long survey of the hall, then turned to the Grand Chew Chew.
"Would you mind," he asked simply, "telling me again who I am and how?"

"Who and how? Who -- You are, illustrious Sir, the Emperor Chang Wang Woe, or
to be more exact, his spirit!"

"I have always been a spirited person," observed the Scarecrow dubiously,
"but never a spirit without a person. I must insist on being a person."

"How?" the Grand Chew Chew proceeded without noticing the Scarecrow's remarks. 
"Fifty years ago -- after your Extreme Highness had defeated in battle the 
King of the Golden Islands -- a magician entered the realm. This magician, in 
the employ of this wicked king, entered a room in the palace where your 
Highness lay sleeping and by an act of necromancy changed you to a crocus!"

"Ouch!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, shuddering involun-tarily.

"And had it not been for the Empress, your faithful wife, you would have
been lost forever to the Empire."

"Wife?" gasped the Scarecrow faintly. "Have I a wife?"

"If your Highness will permit me to finish," begged the Grand Chew Chew with
great dignity. The Scarecrow nodded. "Your wife, Tsing Tsing, the
beautiful, took the crocus, which was fading rapidly, and planted it in a
silver bowl in the center of this very hall and for three days kept it
fresh with her tears. Waking on the third morning, the Empress was amazed
to see in place of the crocus a giant bean pole that extended to the roof
of the palace and disappeared among the clouds."

"Ah!" murmured the Scarecrow, looking up, "My family tree!"

"Beside the bean pole lay a crumpled parchment." The Grand Chew Chew felt in
the sleeve of his kimono and brought out a bit of crumpled silver paper,
and adjusting his horn spectacles, read slowly.

"Into the first being who touches this magic pole -- on the other side of the
world -- the spirit of Emperor Chang Wang Woe will enter. And fifty years from
this day, he will return -- to save his people."

The Grand Chew Chew took off his specs and folded up the paper. "The day has
come! You have come down the bean pole, and are undoubtedly that being who has
gone from Emperor to crocus to Scarecrowcus. I have ruled the Islands these
fifty years; have seen to the education of your sons and grandsons. And now,
gracious and exalted Master, as I am an old man I ask you to relieve me from
the cares of state."

"Sons! Grandsons!" choked the Scarecrow, beginning to feel very much alarmed
indeed. "How old am I?"

"Your Highness," said the Grand Chew Chew with a deep salaam, "is as old as
I. In other words, you are in the ripe and glorious eighty-fifth year of
your Majesty's illustrious and useful age."

"Eigh-ty five!" gasped the Scarecrow, staring in dismay at the gray,
wrinkled face of the old Silverman. "Now see here, Chew Chew, are you sure
of that?"

"Quite sure, Immortal and Honored Master!"

The Scarecrow could not help but be convinced of the truth of the Grand Chew
Chew's story. The pole in the Munchkin farmer's cornfield was none other
than the magic beanstalk, and he, thrust on the pole by the farmer to scare
away the crows, had received the spirit of the Emperor Chang Wang Woe.
"Which accounts for my cleverness," he thought gloomily. Now, surely he
should have been pleased, for he had come in search of a family, but the
acquisition of an empire, sons and grandsons, and old age, all in a trice,
fairly took his breath away.

"Does the prophecy say anything about restoring my imperial person?" he asked
anxiously, for the thought of looking like Chew Chew was not a cheerful one.

"Alas, no!" sighed the Grand Chew Chew sorrowfully. "But we have very clever
wizards on the Island, and I shall set them at work on the problem at once."

"Now don't be in such a rush," begged the Scarecrow, secretly determined to
lock up the wizards at the first opportunity. "I'm rather fond of this
shape. You see, it requires no food and never grows tired -- or old!"

"The royal robes will in a measure conceal it," murmured the Grand Chew Chew
politely, and clapped his hands. A little servitor bounced into the hall.

"A royal robe, Quick Silver, for his Radiant Highness," snapped the Grand
Chew Chew. In a moment Quick Silver had returned with a magnificent purple
satin robe embroidered in silver threads and heavy with jewels, and a hat
of silver cloth with upturned brim. The Scarecrow wrapped himself in the
purple robe, took off his old Munchkin hat, and substituted the Imperial
headpiece.

"How do I look, Chew?" he asked anxiously.

"Quite like your old Imperial Self, except --" The old Prime Minister
ran unsteadily out of the room. There was a muffled scream from the hall,
and the next instant he returned with a long, shiny, silver queue which he
had evidently clipped from the head of one of the servants. Removing the
Scarecrow's hat, he pinned the queue to the back, set it on the Scarecrow's
head, and stood regarding him with great satisfaction. "Ah, if the Empress
could only see you!" he murmured rapturously.

"Where -- where is she?" asked the Scarecrow, looking around nervously. His
long, care-free life in Oz had somewhat unfitted him, he reflected, for
family life.

"Alas!" sighed the Grand Chew Chew, wiping his eyes on the sleeve of his
kimono, "She has returned to her silver ancestors."

"Then show me her picture," commanded the Scarecrow, visibly affected. The
Grand Chew Chew stepped to a side wall, and pulling on a silken cord,
disclosed the picture of a large, gray lady with curiously small eyes and a
curiously large nose.

"Is she not beautiful?" asked the Grand Chew Chew, bowing his head.

"Beautiful -- er -- er, beautiful!" gulped the Scarecrow. He thought of lovely
little Ozma and dear little Dorothy, and all at once felt terribly upset
and homesick. He had no recollection of the Silver Island or his life here
whatever. Who was he, anyway -- the Scarecrow of Oz or Emperor Chang Wang
Woe? He couldn't be both.

"Ah!" whispered the Grand Chew Chew, seeing his agitation. "You remember
her?" The Scarecrow shook his head, with an inward shudder.

"Now show me myself, Chew," he asked curiously. Pulling the cord of a portrait 
beside the Empress, Chew Chew revealed the picture of Chang Wang Woe as he had 
been fifty years ago. His face was bland and jolly, and to be perfectly 
truthful, quite like the Scarecrow's in shape and expression. "I am beside 
myself," murmured the Scarecrow dazedly -- which in truth he was.

"You were -- er -- are a very royal and handsome person," stammered the Grand
Chew Chew.

The Scarecrow, stepping off the throne to examine himself more closely,
dropped the little fan and parasol. He had really not had time to examine
them since they snapped off the beanstalk, and now, looking at them
carefully, he found them extremely pretty.

"Dorothy will like these," thought the Scarecrow, slipping them into a large
inside pocket of his robe. Already, in the back of his head, was a queer 
notion that he would at some time or other return to Oz. He started to give 
the Grand Chew Chew a spirited description of that wonderful country, but the 
ancient gentleman yawned and, waving his hands toward the door, interrupted 
him with:

"Would not your Supreme Highness care to inspect your present dominions?"

"I suppose I may as well!" With a deep sigh, the Scarecrow took the Grand
Chew Chew's arm and, holding up his royal kimono (which was rather long)
with the other hand, walked unsteadily down the great salon. They were
about to pass into the garden when a little fat Silverman slid around the
door, a huge silver drumstick upraised in his right hand and a great drum
hung about his neck.

The drummer beamed on the Scarecrow.

    Chang Wang Woe, the Beautiful,
    The Beautiful has come!
    Sublime and silver Scarecrow,
    Let sound the royal drum!

chanted the little man in a high, thin voice, and started to bring the
drumstick down upon the huge head of his noisy instrument.

"No you don't!" cried the Scarecrow, leaping forward and catching his arm.

"I positively forbid it!"

"Then I shall have no work!" screamed the drummer, falling on his face. "Ah,
Gracious Master, don't you remember me?"

"Yes," said the Scarecrow kindly, "who are you?"

"Oh, don't you remember little Happy Toko?" wheezed the little man, the tears 
rolling down his cheeks. "I was only a boy, but you used to be fond of me."

"Why, of course, my dear Tappy," said the Scarecrow, not liking to hurt the
little fellow's feelings. "But why do you beat the drum?"

"It is customary to sound the drum at the approach of your Royal Highness,"
put in the Grand Chew Chew importantly.

"Was customary," said the Scarecrow firmly. "My dear Tappy Oko, never sound
it in my presence again; it is too upsetting." Which was true enough, for
one blow of the drum sent the flimsy Scarecrow flying into the air.

"You're dismissed, Happy," snapped the Grand Chew Chew. At this, the little
Silver Islander began weeping and roaring with distress.

"Stop! What else can you do besides beat a drum?" asked the Scarecrow kindly.

"I can sing, stand on my head, and tell jokes," sniffed Happy Toko,
shuffling from one foot to the other.

"Very good," said the Scarecrow. "You are henceforth Imperial Punster to my
Person. Come along, we're going to look over the Island."

The Grand Chew Chew frowned so terribly that Happy Toko's knees shook with
terror.

"It is not fitting for a slave to accompany the Grand Chew Chew and
the Emperor," he hissed angrily.

The Scarecrow looked surprised, for the Kingdom of Oz is quite democratic,
and no one is considered better than another. But seeing this was not the
time to argue, he winked broadly behind the Grand Chew Chew's back.

"I'll see you again, Tappy my boy," he called genially, and passed out into
the garden, where a magnificent silver palanquin, surrounded by pikemen and
shieldbearers, awaited him.



CHAPTER 8

THE SCARECROW STUDIES THE SILVER ISLAND


Two days had passed since the Scarecrow had fallen into his Kingdom. He was
not finding his royal duties as pleasant as he had anticipated. The country
was beautiful enough, but being Emperor of the Silver Islands was not the
simple affair that ruling Oz had been. The pigtail on the back of his hat
was terribly distracting, and he was always tripping over his kimono, to
which he could not seem to accustom himself. His subjects were extremely
quarrelsome, always pulling one another's queues or stealing fruit,
umbrellas, and silver polish. His ministers, the Grand Chew Chew, the Chief
Chow Chow, and General Mugwump, were no better, and keeping peace in the
palace took all the Scarecrow's cleverness.

In the daytime he tried culprits in the royal court, interviewed his seventeen
secretaries, rode out in the royal palanquin, and made speeches to visiting
princes. At night he sat in the great silver salon and by the light of the
lanterns studied the Book of Ceremonies. His etiquette, the Grand Chew Chew
informed him, was shocking. He was always doing something wrong, dodging the
Imperial Umbrella, speaking kindly to a palace servant, or walking unattended
in the gardens.

The royal palace itself was richly furnished, and the Scarecrow had more than 
five hundred robes of state. The gardens, with their sparkling waterfalls, 
glowing orange trees, silver temples, towers and bridges, were too lovely for 
words. Poppies, roses, lotus and other lilies perfumed the air, and at night a 
thousand silver lanterns turned them to a veritable fairyland.

The grass and trees were green as in other lands, but the sky as always full
of tiny silver clouds, the waters surrounding the island were of a lovely
liquid silver, and as all the houses and towers were of this gleaming metal,
the effect was bewil-dering and beautiful.

But the Silver Islanders themselves were too stupid to appreciate this
beauty. "And what use is it all when I have no one to enjoy it with me,"
sighed the Scarecrow. "And no time to play!"

In Oz no one thought it queer if Ozma, the little Queen, jumped rope with
Dorothy or Betsy Bobbin, or had a quiet game of croquet with the palace cook.
But here, alas, everything was different. If the Scarecrow so much as ventured
a game of ball with the gardener's boy, the whole court was thrown into an
uproar. At first, the Scarecrow tried to please everybody, but finding that
nothing pleased the people in the palace, he decided to please himself.

"I don't care a kinkajou if I am the Emperor, I'm going to talk to
whom I please!" he exclaimed on the second night, and shaking his glove at
a bronze statue, he threw the Book of Ceremonies into the fountain. The
next morning, therefore, he ascended the throne with great firmness.
Immediately, the courtiers prostrated themselves, and the Scarecrow's arms
and legs blew about wildly.

"Stand up at once," puffed the Scarecrow when he had regained his balance.

"You are giving me nervous prostration. Chew, kindly issue an edict forbidding
prostrations. Anyone caught bowing in my presence again shall lose --" the
courtiers looked alarmed "-- his pigtail!" finished the Scarecrow.

"And now, Chew, you will take my place, please. I am going for a walk with
Tappy Oko."

The Grand Chew Chew's mouth fell open with surprise, but seeing the
Scarecrow's determined expression, he dared not disobey, and he immediately
began making strange marks on a long, red parchment. Happy Toko trembled as
the Scarecrow Emperor took his arm, and the courtiers stared at one another
in dismay as the two walked quietly out into the garden.

Nothing happened, however, and Tappy, regaining his composure, took out a
little silver flute and started a lively tune.

"I had to take matters into my own hands, Tappy," said the Scarecrow,
listening to the music with a pleased expression. "Are there any words to
that song?"

"Yes, illustrious and Supreme Sir!"

    Two spoons went down a Por-ce-Lane,
    To meet a China saucer,
    A 'talking China in a way
    To break a white man's jaw, Sir!

sang Happy, and finished by standing gravely on his head.

"Your Majesty used to be very fond of this song," spluttered Happy. (It is
difficult to speak while upside down, and if you don't think so, try it!)

"Ah!" said the Scarecrow, beginning to feel more cheerful, "Tell me
something about myself and my family, Tappy Oko."

"Happy Toko, if it pleases your Supreme Amiability," corrected the little
silver man, somersaulting to a standstill beside the Scarecrow.

"It does and it doesn't," murmured the Scarecrow. "There is something about
you that reminds me of a pudding, and you tapped the drum, didn't you? I
believe I shall call you Tappy Oko, if you don't mind!"

The Scarecrow seated himself on a silver bench and motioned for the Imperial
Punster to sit down beside him. Tappy Oko sat down fearfully, first making
sure that he was not observed.

"Saving your Imperial Presence, this is not permitted," said Tappy uneasily.

"Never mind about my Imperial Presence," chuckled the Scarecrow. "Tell me
about my Imperial Past."

"Ah!" said Tappy Oko, rolling up his eyes, "You were one of the most
magnificent and magnanimous of monarchs."

"Was I?" asked the Scarecrow in a pleased voice.

"You distributed rice among the poor, and advice among the rich, and fought
many glorious battles," continued the little man. "I composed a little song
about you. Perhaps you would like to hear it?"

The Scarecrow nodded, and Tappy, throwing back his head, chanted with a will:

    Chang Wang Woe did draw the bow -
    And twist the queues of a thousand foe!

"In Oz," murmured the Scarecrow reflectively as Tappy finished, "I twisted
the necks of a flock of wild crows -- that was before I had my excellent
brains, too. Oh, I'm a fighting man, there's no doubt about it. But tell
me, Tappy, where did I meet my wife?"

"In the water!" chuckled Tappy Oko, screwing up his eyes.

"Never!" The Scarecrow looked out over the harbor and then down at his lumpy
figure.

"Your Majesty forgets you were then a man like me -- er -- not stuffed with
straw, I mean," exclaimed Happy, looking embarrassed. "She was fishing,"
continued the little Punster, "when a huge silver fish became entangled in
her line. She stood up, the fish gave a mighty leap and pulled her out of
the boat. Your Majesty, having seen the whole affair from the bank, plunged
bravely into the water and, swimming out, rescued her, freed the fish, and
in due time made her your bride. I've made a song about that, also."

"Let's hear it," said the Scarecrow. And this is what Happy sung:

    Tsing Tsing, a Silver Fisher's daughter,
    Was fishing in the silver water.
    The moon shone on her silver hair
    And there were fishes everywhere!

    Then came a mighty silver fish,
    It seized her line and with a swish
    Of silver fins upset her boat.
    Tsing Tsing could neither swim nor float.

    She raised her silver voice in fear
    And who her call of help should hear
    But Chang Wang Woe, the Emperor,
    Who saved and married her, what's more!

"Did I really?" asked the Scarecrow, feeling quite flattered by Happy's song.

"Yes," said Happy positively, "and invited me to the wedding, though I was
only a small boy."

"Was Chew Chew there?" The Scarecrow couldn't help wondering how the old
Nobleman had taken his marriage with a poor fisherman's daughter.

Happy chuckled at the memory. "He had a Princess all picked out for you," he
confided merrily:

    And there he stood in awful pride
    And scorned the father of the bride!

"Hoh!" roared the Scarecrow, falling off the bench. "That's the Ozziest
thing I've heard since I landed in the Silver Islands. Tappy, my boy, I
believe we are going to be friends! But let's forget the past and think of
the present!"

The Scarecrow embraced his Imperial Punster on the spot. "Let's find something
jolly to do," he suggested.

"Would your Extreme Highness care for kites?" asked Happy. 'Tis a favorite
sport here!"

"Would I! But wait, I will disguise myself." Hiding his royal hat under the
bench, he put on Happy Toko's broad-rimmed (sic) peasant hat. It turned
down all 'round and almost hid his face. Then he turned his robe inside out
and declared himself ready.

They passed through a small silver town before they reached the field where
the kites were to be flown, and the Scarecrow was delighted with its
picturesque and quaint appearance. The streets were narrow and full of
queer shops. Silver lanterns and little pennants hung from each door, the
merchants and maidens in their gay sedans and the people afoot made a
bright and lively picture.

"If I could just live here instead of in the palace," mused the Scarecrow,
pausing before a modest rice shop. It is dangerous to stop in the narrow
streets, and Happy jerked his master aside just in time to prevent his being
trodden on by a huge camel. It sniffed at the Scarecrow suspiciously, and they
were forced to flatten themselves against a wall to let it pass. Happy
anxiously hurried the Emperor through the town, and they soon arrived at the
kite flying field. A great throng had gathered to watch the exhibition, and
there were more kites than one would see in a lifetime here. Huge fish, silver
paper dragons, birds -- every sort and shape of kite was tugging at its
string, and hundreds of Silver Islanders -- boys, girls and grown-ups -- were
looking on.

"How interesting," said the Scarecrow, fascinated by a huge dragon that 
floated just over his head. "I wish Dorothy could see this, I do indeed!"

But the dragon kite seemed almost alive, and horrors! Just as it swooped
down, a hook in the tail caught in the Scarecrow's collar, and before Happy
Toko could even wink, the Emperor of the Silver Islands was sailing towards
the clouds. The Scarecrow, as you must know, weighs almost nothing, and the
people shouted with glee, for they thought him a dummy man and part of the
performance. But Happy Toko ran after the kite as fast as his fat little
legs would carry him.

"Alas, alas, I shall lose my position!" wailed Happy Toko, quite convinced
that the Scarecrow would be dashed to pieces on the rocks. "Oh, putty head
that I am to set myself against the Grand Chew Chew!"

The Scarecrow, however, after recovering from the first shock, began to
enjoy himself. Holding fast to the dragon's tail, he looked down with great
interest upon his dominions. Rocks, mountains, tall silver pagodas,
drooping willow trees, flashed beneath him. Truly a beautiful island! His
gaze strayed over the silver waters surrounding the island, and he was
astonished to see a great fleet sailing into the harbor -- a great fleet
of singular vessels with silken sails.

"What's this?" thought the Scarecrow. But just then the dragon kite became
suddenly possessed. It jerked him up, it jerked him down, and shook him
this way and that. His hat flew off, his arms and legs whirled wildly, and
pieces of straw began to float downward. Then the hook ripped and tore
through his coat and, making a terrible slit in his back, came out. Down,
down, down flashed the Scarecrow and landed in a heap on the rocks. Poor
Happy Toko rushed toward him with streaming eyes.

"Oh radiant and immortal Scarecrowcus, what have they done to you?" he
moaned, dropping on his knees beside the flimsy shape of the Emperor.

"Merely knocked out my honorable stuffing," mumbled the Scarecrow. "Now
Tappy, my dear fellow, will you just turn me over? There's a rock in my eye
that keeps me from thinking."

Happy Toko, at the sound of a voice from the rumpled heap of clothing, gave
a great leap.

"Is there any straw about?" asked the Scarecrow anxiously. "Why don't you
turn me over?"

"It's his ghost," moaned Happy Toko, and because he dared not disobey a
royal ghost, he turned the Scarecrow over with trembling hands.

"Don't be alarmed," said the Scarecrow, smiling reassuringly. "I'm not
breakable like you meat people. A little straw will make me good as new. A
little straw -- straw, do you hear?" For Happy's pigtail was still on end,
and he was shaking so that his silver shoes clattered on the rocks.

"I command you to fetch straw!" cried the Scarecrow at last, in an angry
voice. Happy dashed away.

When he returned with an arm full of straw, the Scarecrow managed to convince
him that he was quite alive. "It is impossible to kill a person from Oz," he
explained proudly, "and that is why my present figure is so much more
satisfactory than yours. I do not have to eat or sleep and can always be
repaired. Have you some safety pins?" Happy produced several and under the
Scarecrow's direction stuffed out his chest and pinned up his rents.

"Let us return," said the Scarecrow. "I've had enough pleasure for one day,
and can't you sing something, Tappy?" Running and fright had somewhat
affected Happy's voice, but he squeaked out a funny little song, and the
two, keeping time to the tune, came without further mishap to the Imperial
gardens. Happy had just set the royal hat upon the Scarecrow's head and
brushed off his robes when a company of courtiers dashed out of the palace
door and came running toward them.

"Great Cornstarch!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, sitting heavily down on the
silver bench. "What's the matter now? Here are all the Pig-heads on the
Island, and look how old Chew Chew is puffing!"

"One would expect a Chew Chew to puff," observed Happy slyly. "One
would --" But he got no further, for the whole company was upon them.

"Save us! Save us!" wailed the courtiers, forgetting the royal edict and
falling on their faces.

"What from?" asked the Scarecrow, holding fast to the silver bench.

"The King -- the King of the Golden Islands!" shrieked the Grand Chew Chew.

"Ah yes!" murmured the Scarecrow, frowning thoughtfully. "Was that his fleet
coming into the harbor?"

The Grand Chew Chew jumped up in astonishment. "How could your Highness see
the fleet from here?" he stuttered.

"Not from here -- there," said the Scarecrow, pointing upward and winking
at Happy Toko. "My Highness goes very high, you see!"

"Your Majesty does not seem to realize the seriousness of the matter,"
choked the Grand Chew Chew. "He will set fire to the island and make us all
slaves." At this, the courtiers began banging their heads distractedly on
the grass.

"Set fire to the island!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, jumping to his feet. "Then
peace to my ashes! Tappy, will you see that they are sent back to Oz?"

"Save us! Save us!" screamed the frightened Silvermen.

"The prophecy of the beanstalk has promised that you would save us. You are
the Emperor Chang Wang Woe," persisted the Grand Chew Chew, waving his long
arms.

"Woe is me," murmured the Scarecrow, clasping his yellow gloves. "But let me
think."



CHAPTER 9

"SAVE US WITH YOUR MAGIC, EXALTED ONE!"


For several minutes, the Scarecrow sat perfectly still while the company
stood shaking in their shoes. Then he asked loudly, "Where is the Imperial
Army?"

"It has retired to the caves at the end of the Island," quavered the Grand
Chew Chew.

"I thought as much," said the Scarecrow. "But never mind, there are quite a
lot of us."

"Us!" spluttered a tall Silverman indignantly. "We are not common soldiers."

"No, very uncommon ones, but you have hard heads and long nails, and I dare
say will manage somehow. Come on, let's go. Chew, you may take the lead."

"Go!" shrieked the Grand Chew Chew. "Us?" The Courtiers began backing away
in alarm. "Where -- er -- what -- are your Highness' plans?"

"Why, just to conquer the King of the Golden Islands and send him back home," 
said the Scarecrow, smiling engagingly. "That's what you wanted, isn't it?"

"But it is not honorable for noblemen to fight. It --"

"Oh, of course, if you prefer burning --" The Scarecrow rose unsteadily
and started for the garden gates. Not a person stirred. The Scarecrow
looked back, and his reproachful face was too much for Happy Toko.

"I'll come, exalted and radiant Scarecrowcus! Wait, hon-orable and valiant
Sir!"

"Bring a watering can, if you love me," called the Scarecrow over his
shoulder, and Happy, snatching one from a frightened gardener, dashed after
his Master.

"If things get too hot, I'd like to know that you can put me out," said the
Scarecrow, his voice quivering with emotion. "You shall be rewarded for
this, my brave Tappy."

Happy did not answer, for his teeth were chattering so he could not speak.

The harbor lay just below the Imperial Palace, and the Scarecrow and Happy
hurried on through the crowds of fleeing Silvermen, their household goods
packed upon their heads. Some cheered faintly for Chang Wang Woe, but none
offered to follow, save the faithful Happy.

"Is this king old?" asked the Scarecrow, looking anxiously at the small boats
full of warriors that were putting out from the fleet.

"He is the son of the King whom your Majesty conquered fifty years ago,"
gulped Happy. "Ha-- has your Imperial Highness any -- plan?"

"Not yet," said the Scarecrow cheerfully, "but I'm thinking very hard."

"Then, goodbye to Silver Island!" choked Happy Toko, dropping the watering
can with a crash.

"Never mind," said the Scarecrow kindly. "If they shoot me and I catch fire,
I'll jump in the water and you must fish me out, Tappy. Now please don't
talk any more. I must think!"

Poor Happy Toko had nothing else to say, for he considered his day finished.
The first of the invaders were already landing on the beach, and standing
up in a small boat, encased in glittering gold armor, was the King of the
Golden Islands, himself. The sun was quite hot, and there was a smell of
gunpowder in the air.

Now the Scarecrow had encountered many dangers in Oz and had usually thought
his way out of them, but as they came nearer and nearer to the shore and no
idea presented itself, he began to feel extremely nervous. A bullet fired
from the king's boat tore through his hat, and the smoke made him more
anxious than ever about his straw stuffing. He felt hurriedly in his
pocket, and his clumsy fingers closed over the little fan he had plucked
from the bean pole.

Partly from agitation and partly because he did not know what else to do, the
Scarecrow flipped the fan open. At that minute, a mighty roar went up from the
enemy, for at the first motion of the fan they had been jerked fifty feet into
the air, and there they hung suspended over their ships, kicking and squealing
for dear life. The Scarecrow was as surprised as they, and as for Happy Toko,
he fell straightway on his nose!

"Magic!" exclaimed the Scarecrow. "Someone is helping us," and he began
fanning himself gently with the little fan, waiting to see what would happen
next. At each wave of the fan, the King of the Golden Islands and his men flew
higher until at last not one of them could be seen from the shore.

"The fan. The magic is in the fan!" gasped Happy Toko, jumping up and
embracing the Scarecrow.

"Why, what do you mean?" asked the Scarecrow, closing the fan with a snap.
Happy's answer was drowned in a huge splash. As soon as the fan was closed,
down whirled the king's army into the sea, and each man struck the water with 
such force that the spray rose high as a skyscraper. And not till then did the 
Scarecrow realize the power of the little fan he had been saving for Dorothy.

"Saved!" screamed Happy Toko, dancing up and down. "Hurrah for the Emperor!"

    The Emperor, without a plan,
    Has won the victory with a fan.

The Silver Islanders had paused in their flight at the queer noises coming
from the harbor, and now all of them, hearing Tappy Oko's cries, came
crowding down to the shore and were soon cheering themselves hoarse. No
wonder! The drenched soldiers of the king were climbing swiftly back into
their boats, and when they were all aboard, the Scarecrow waved his fan
sidewise (he did not want to blow them up again), and the ships swept
out of the harbor so fast that the water churned to silver suds behind
them, and they soon were out of sight.

"Ah!" cried the Grand Chew Chew, arriving breathlessly at this point, "We
have won the day!"

"So we have!" chuckled the Scarecrow, putting his arm around Happy Toko. "Call
the brave army and decorate the generals!"

"It shall be done," said the Grand Chew Chew, frowning at Happy. "There
shall be a great celebration, a feast, and fireworks."

"Fireworks," quavered the Scarecrow, clutching his Imperial Punster. By this
time, the Silver Islanders were crowding around the Emperor, shouting and
squealing for joy, and before he could prevent it, they had placed him on
their shoulders and carried him in triumph to the palace. He managed to signal
Happy, and Happy nodded reassuringly and ran off as fast as his fat little
legs could patter. He arrived at the palace almost as soon as the Scarecrow,
lugging a giant silver watering can, and, sitting calmly on the steps of the
throne, fanned himself with his hat. The Scarecrow eyed the watering can with
satisfaction.

"Now let them have their old fireworks," he muttered under his breath, and
settled himself comfortably. The Grand Chew Chew was hopping about like a
ditched kite, arranging for the celebration. The courtiers were shaking hands
with themselves and forming in a long line. A great table was being set in the
hall.

"What a fuss they are making over nothing," said the Scarecrow to Happy Toko.
"Now in Oz when we win a victory, we all play some jolly game and sit down to
dinner with Ozma. Why, they haven't even set a place for you, Happy!"

"I'd rather sit here, amiable Master," sighed Happy Toko happily. "Is the
little fan safely closed?"

The Scarecrow felt in his pocket to make sure, then leaned forward in
surprise. The Royal Silver Army were marching stiffly into the hall, and
the courtiers were bobbing and bowing and cheering like mad.

The General came straight to the great silver throne, clicked his silver
heels, bowed, and stood at attention.

"Well," said the Scarecrow, surveying this splendid person curiously, "what is
it?"

"They have come for their decorations," announced the Grand Chew Chew,
stepping up with a large silver platter full of medals.

"But I thought Tappy Oko and I saved the Island," chuckled the Scarecrow,
nudging the Imperial Punster.

"Had the Imperial Army not retired and left the field to you, there would
have been no victory," faltered the General in a timid voice. "Therefore,
in a way we are responsible for the victory. A great general always knows
when to retire."

"There's something in that," admitted the Scarecrow, scratching his head
thoughtfully. "Go ahead and decorate 'em, Chew Chew!"

This the Grand Chew Chew proceeded to do, making such a long speech to each
soldier that half of the Court fell asleep and the Scarecrow fidgeted
uncomfortably.

"They remind me of the Army of Oz," he confided to Happy Toko, "but we never
have long speeches in Oz. I declare, I wish I could go to sleep, too, and
that's something I have never seen any use in before."

"They've just begun," yawned Happy Toko, nearly rolling down the steps of
the throne, and Happy was not far wrong, for all afternoon one after the
other of the courtiers arose and droned about the great victory, and as
they all addressed themselves to the Scarecrow, he was forced to listen
politely. When the speeches were over, there was still the grand banquet to
be got through, and as the Silver Islanders ate much the same fare as their
Chinese cousins, you can imagine the poor Scarecrow's feelings.

"Ugh!" shivered the Scarecrow as the strange dishes appeared, "I'm glad none
of my friends are here. How fortunate that I'm stuffed with straw!" The
broiled mice, the stewed shark fins and the bird nest soup made him stare.
He had ordered Happy Toko to be placed at his side, and to watch him
happily at work with his silver chopsticks and porcelain spoon was the only
satisfaction he got out of the feast.

"And what is that?" he asked, pointing to a steaming bowl that had just been
placed before Happy.

"Minced cat, your Highness," replied Happy, sprinkling it generously with
silver polish.

"Cat?" shrieked the Scarecrow, pouncing to his feet in horror. "Do you mean
to tell me you are eating a poor, innocent, little cat?"

"Not a poor one at all. A very rich one, I should say," replied Happy Toko
with his mouth full. "Ah, had your Highness only your old body, how you
would enjoy this!"

"Never!" shouted the Scarecrow so loudly that all of the Courtiers looked up
in surprise. "How dare you eat innocent cats?" Indignantly he thought of
Dorothy's pet kitten back in Oz. Oz -- why had he ever left that wonderful
country?

"Your Highness has eaten hundreds," announced the Grand Chew Chew calmly.
"Hundreds!"

The Scarecrow dropped back into his chair, too shocked for speech. He, the
Scarecrow of Oz, had eaten hundreds of cats! What would Dorothy say to
that? Ugh! This was his first experience with Silver Island fare. He had
always spent the dinner hours in the garden. He sighed, and looked
wistfully at the bean pole in the center of the hall. Every minute he was
feeling less and less like the Emperor of the Silver Island and more and
more like the plain Scarecrow of Oz.

"Your Majesty seems out of spirits," said Happy Toko as he placed himself and
the huge watering can beside the Emperor's bench in the garden later in the
evening.

"I wish I were," said the Scarecrow. "To have an Emperor's spirit wished on
you is no joke, my dear Tappy. It's a blinking bore!" At that moment, the
fireworks commenced. The garden, ablaze with many shaped silver lanterns,
looked more like Fairyland than ever. But each rocket made the Scarecrow
wince. Showers of stars and butterflies fell 'round his head, fiery dragons
leaped over the trees, and in all the Fourth of July celebrations you could
imagine there were never such marvelous fireworks as these. No wonder Happy
Toko, gazing in delight, forgot his promises to his Royal Master.

Soon the Scarecrow's fears were realized, and his straw stuffing began to
smoke.

"Put me out! Put me out!" cried the Scarecrow, as a shower of sparks settled
in his lap. The royal band made such a din and the courtiers such a clatter
that Happy did not hear.

All of the Silver Islanders were intent on the display, and they forgot all
about their unhappy and smoking Emperor.

"Help! Water! Water! Fire!" screamed the Scarecrow, jumping off his throne and 
knocking Happy head over heels. Thus brought to his senses, Happy hurriedly 
seized the watering can and sprinkled its contents on the smoking Emperor.

"Am I out?" gasped the Emperor anxiously. "A fine way to celebrate a victory, 
lighting me up like a Roman candle!"

"Yes, dear Master," said the repentant Happy, helping the dripping Scarecrow
to his feet, "it only scorched your royal robe. And it's all over, anyway.
Let us go in."

The dripping Emperor was quite ready to follow his Imperial Punster's advice.

"Now that I am put out, let us by all means go in," said the Scarecrow
gloomily, and the two slipped off without anyone noticing their departure.

"I'm afraid I'll have to have some new stuffing tomorrow," observed the
Scarecrow, sinking dejectedly on his throne. "Tappy, my dear boy, after this
never leave me alone, do you hear?" Happy Toko made no reply. He had fallen
asleep beside the Imperial Throne.

The Scarecrow might have called his court, but he was in no mood for more of
the Silver Islanders' idea of a good time. He longed for the dear friends
of his loved Land of Oz.

One by one the lights winked out in the gardens, and the noisy company
dispersed, and soon no one in the palace was awake but the Scarecrow. His
straw was wet and soggy, and even his excellent brains felt damp and dull.

"If it weren't for Tappy Oko, how lonely I should be." He stared through the
long, dim, empty hall with its shimmering silver screens and vases. "I wonder
what little Dorothy is doing," sighed the Scarecrow wistfully.



CHAPTER 10

PRINCESS OZMA AND BETSY BOBBIN TALK IT OVER


"Dorothy must be having a lovely time at the Scarecrow's," remarked Betsy
Bobbin to Ozma one afternoon as they sat reading in the Royal Gardens
several days after Dorothy's departure from the Emerald City of Oz.

"One always has a jolly time at the Scarecrow's," laughed the little Queen
of Oz. "I must look in my Magic Picture and see what they are doing. Too
bad she missed the A-B-Sea Serpent and Rattlesnakes. Weren't they the
funniest creatures?"

Both the little girls (for Ozma is really just a little girl) went off into
a gale of laughter. The two queer creatures had followed the Scarecrow's
advice and had spent their vacation in the Emerald City, and partly because
they were so dazzled by their surroundings and partly because they have no
sort of memories whatever, they never mentioned the Scarecrow himself or
said anything about his plan to hunt his family tree. They talked incessantly
of the Mer City and told innumerable A-B-Sea stories to Scraps and the Tin
Woodman and the children of the Emerald City. When they were ready to go, the
A-B-Sea Serpent snapped off its X block for Ozma. X, he said, meant almost
everything, and pretty well expressed his gratitude to the lovely little ruler
of Oz. Ozma in turn gave each of the visitors an emerald collar, and that very
morning they had started back to the Munchkin River, and all the celebrities
of Oz had gotten up to see them off.

"Maybe they'll come again some time," said Betsy Bobbin, swinging her feet.
"But look, Ozma, here comes a messenger." A messenger it surely was, dressed
in the quaint red costume of the Quadlings. It was from Glinda, the Good
Sorceress, and caused the Princess to sigh with vexation.

"Tell Jack Pumpkinhead to harness the Sawhorse to the red wagon," said Ozma
after glancing hastily at the little note. "The Horners and Hoppers are at
war again. And tell the Wizard to make ready for a journey."

"May I come, too,?" asked Betsy. Ozma nodded with a troubled little frown,
and Betsy bustled off importantly. Not many little girls are called upon to
help settle wars and rule a country as wonderful as Oz.

The Horners and Hoppers are a quarrelsome and curious folk living in the
Quadling mountains, and soon Ozma, Jack Pumpkinhead, Betsy and the Wizard of
Oz were rattling off at the best speed the Sawhorse could manage. This was
pretty fast, for the little horse, being made of wood and magically brought to
life, never tires and could outrun anything on legs in the fairy Kingdom of
Oz.

But the fact that interests us is that Ozma did not look in the Magic Picture
or see what exciting adventures the Scarecrow and Dorothy really were having!

As for Professor Wogglebug, who had caused all the trouble, he was busily at
work on the twelfth chapter of the Royal Book of Oz, which he had modestly
headed:

    H. M. WOGGLEBUG T.E., PRINCE OF BUGS,

       Cultured and Eminent Educator
                  and also
 Great Grand and General Genealogist of Oz.



CHAPTER 11

SIR HOKUS OVERCOMETH THE GIANT


"I don't believe we'll ever find the way out of this forest."

Dorothy stopped with a discouraged little sigh and leaned against a tree. They
had followed the road for several hours. First it had been fine and wide, but
it had gradually dwindled to a crooked little path that wound crazily in
and out through the trees. Although it was almost noonday, not a ray of sun
penetrated through the dim green depths.

"Methinks," said Sir Hokus, peering into the gloom ahead, "that a great
adventure is at hand."

The Cowardly Lion put back his ears. "What makes you methink so?" he rumbled
anxiously.

"Hark thee!" said Sir Hokus, holding up his finger warningly. From a great
way off sounded a curious thumping. It was coming nearer and nearer.

"Good gracious!" cried Dorothy, catching hold of the Cowardly Lion's mane.

"This is worse than Pokes!"

"Perchance it is a dragon," exulted the Knight, drawing his short sword. "Ah,
how it would refresh me to slay a dragon!"

"I don't relish dragons myself. Scorched my tongue on one once," said the
Cowardly Lion huskily. "But I'll fight with you, brother Hokus. Stand back,
Dorothy dear."

As the thuds grew louder, the Knight fairly danced up and down with
excitement. "Approach, villain!" he roared lustily.

"Approach till I impale thee on my lance. Ah, had I but a horse!"

"I'd let you ride on my back if it weren't for that hard tin suit," said the
Cowardly Lion. "But cheer up, my dear Hokus, your voice is a little
hoarse." Dorothy giggled nervously, then seized hold of a small tree, for
the whole forest was rocking.

"How now!" gasped the Knight. There was a terrific quake that threw Sir Hokus
on his face and sent every hair in the lion's mane on end, and then a great
foot came crashing down through the treetops not three paces from the little
party. Before they could even swallow, a giant hand flashed down-ward, jerked
up a handful of trees by the roots, and disappeared, while a voice from
somewhere way above shouted:

    What are little humans for?
    To feed the giant Bangladore.
    Broiled or toasted, baked or roasted,
    I smell three or maybe four!

"You hear that?" quavered the Cowardly Lion. Sir Hokus did not answer. His
helmet had been jammed down by his fall, and he was tugging it upward with
both hands. Frightened though Dorothy was, she ran to the Knight's assistance.

"Have at you!" cried Sir Hokus as soon as the opening in his helmet was
opposite his eyes. "Forward!"

"My heart is beating a retreat," gulped the Cowardly Lion, but he bounded
boldly after Sir Hokus.

"Varlet!" hissed the Knight, and raising his sword gave a mighty slash at
the giant's ankle, which was broad as three tree trunks, while the Cowardly
Lion gave a great spring and sank his teeth in the giant's huge leg.

"Ouch!" roared the giant in a voice that shook every leaf in the forest.
"You stop, or I'll tell my father!" With that, he gave a hop that sent Sir
Hokus flying into the treetops, stumbled over a huge rock, and came
crashing to the earth, smashing trees like grass blades. At the giant's
first scream, Dorothy shut her eyes and, putting her hands over her ears,
had run as far and as fast as she could. At the awful crash, she stopped
short, opened her eyes, and stared 'round giddily.

The giant was flat on his back, but as he was stretched as far as four city
blocks, only half of him was visible. The Cowardly Lion still clung to his
leg, and he was gurgling and struggling in a way Dorothy could not understand.

She looked around in a panic for the Knight. Just then, Sir Hokus dropped from
the branch of a tree.

"Uds daggers!" he puffed, looking ruefully at his sword, which had snapped
off at the handle, " 'Tis a pretty rogue!"

"Don't you think we'd better run?" shiver Dorothy, thinking of the giant's 
song.

"Not while I wear these colors!" exclaimed Sir Hokus, proudly touching
Dorothy's hair ribbon, which still adorned his arm. "Come, my good Lion,
let us dispatch this braggart and saucy monster."

"Father!" screamed the giant, making no attempt to move.

"He seems to be frightened, himself," whispered Dorothy to the Knight. "But
whatever is the matter with the Cowardly Lion?"

At that minute, the Cowardly Lion gave a great jerk and began backing with
his four feet braced. The piece of giant leg that he had hold of stretched
and stretched, and while Sir Hokus and Dorothy stared in amazement, it
snapped off and the Cowardly Lion rolled head over paws.

"Taffy!" roared the Cowardly Lion, sitting up and trying to open his jaws,
which were firmly stuck together.

"Taffy!" At this, Sir Hokus sprang nimbly on the giant's leg, ran up his
chest, and perched bravely on his peppermint collar.

"Surrender, Knave!" he demanded threateningly. Dorothy, seeing she could do
nothing to help the Cowardly Lion, followed. On her way up, she broke off a
tiny piece of his coat and found it most delicious chocolate.

"Why, he's all made of candy!" she cried excitedly.

"Oh, hush!" sobbed the giant, rolling his great sourball eyes. "I'd be eaten
in a minute if it were known."

"You were mighty anxious to eat us a while ago," said Dorothy, looking
longingly at the giant's coat buttons. They seemed to be large marshmallows.

"Go away!" screamed the giant, shaking so that Dorothy slid into his vest
pocket. "No one under forty feet is allowed in this forest!"

Dorothy climbed crossly out of the giant's pocket. "We didn't come because
we wanted to," she assured him, wiping the chocolate off her nose.

"Odds bodikins! I cannot fight a great baby like this," sighed Sir Hokus,
dodging just in time a great, sugary tear that had rolled down the giant's
nose. "He's got to apologize for that song, though."

"Wait!" cried Dorothy suddenly. "I have an idea. If you set us down on the
edge of the forest and give us all your vest buttons for lunch, we won't
tell anyone you're made of candy. We'll let you go," she called loudly, for
the giant had begun to sob again.

"Won't you? Will you?" sniffed the foolish giant.

"Never sing that song again!" commanded the Knight sternly.

"No, Sir," answered the giant meekly. "Did your dog chew much of my leg,
Sir?" Then, before Dorothy or Sir Hokus had time to way a word, they were
snatched up in sticky fingers and next minute were dropped with a thump in
a large field of daisies.

"Oh!" spluttered Dorothy as the giant made off on his taffy legs. "Oh, we've
forgotten the Cowardly Lion!" But at that minute, the giant reappeared, and
the lion was dropped beside them.

"What's this? What's this?" growled the Cowardly Lion, looking around wildly.

"We got him to lift us out of the forest," explained Dorothy. "Have you
swallowed the taffy?" The lion was still dizzy from his ride and only shook
his head feebly.

Sir Hokus sighed and sat heavily down on a large rock. "There is no sort of
honor, methinks, in overcoming a candy giant," he observed, looking
wistfully at the plume still pinned to Dorothy's dress. "Ah, had it but
been a proper fight!"

"You didn't know he was candy. I think you were just splendid." Jumping up,
Dorothy fastened the plume in the Knight's helmet. "And you're talking just
beautifully, more like a Knight every minute," she added with conviction.
Sir Hokus tried not to look pleased.

"Give me a meat enemy! My teeth ache yet! First singing, then candy-leg
pulling! Gr-ugh! What next?" growled the Cowardly Lion.

"Why, lunch, if you feel like eating," said Dorothy, beginning to give out
the vest buttons which the giant had obediently ripped off and left for
them. They were marshmallows, the size of pie plates, and Dorothy and
Sir Hokus found them quite delicious. The Cowardly Lion, however, after a
doubtful sniff and sneeze from the powdered sugar, declined and went off to
find something more to his taste.

"We had better take some of these along," said Dorothy when she and Sir
Hokus had eaten several. "We may need them later."

"Everything is yellow, so we must be in the Winkie Country," announced the
Cowardly Lion, who had just returned from his lunch. "There's a road, too."

"Mayhap it will take us to the jeweled city of your gracious Queen." Sir Hokus
shaded his eyes and stared curiously at the long lane stretching invitingly
ahead of them.

"Well, anyway, we're out of the forest and Pokes, and maybe we'll meet someone
who will tell us about the Scarecrow. Come on!" cried Dorothy gaily. "I think
we're on the right track this time."



CHAPTER 12

DOROTHY AND SIR HOKUS COME TO FIX CITY


The afternoon went pleasantly for the three travelers. The road was wide and
shady and really seemed a bit familiar. Dorothy rode comfortably on the
Cowardly Lion's back and to pass the time told Sir Hokus all about Oz. He
was particularly interested in the Scarecrow.

"Grammercy! He should be knighted!" he exclaimed, slapping his knee, as
Dorothy told how the clever straw man had helped outwit the Gnome King when
that wicked little rascal had tried to keep them prisoners in his underground
kingdom.

"But, go to! Where is the gallant man now?" The Knight sobered quickly.
"Mayhap in need of a strong arm! Mayhap at the mercy of some terrible
monster!"

"Oh, I hope not!" cried Dorothy, dismayed at so dark a picture. "Why, oh
why, did he bother about his family tree?"

"Trust the Scarecrow to take care of himself," said the Cowardly Lion in a
gruff voice. Nevertheless, he quickened his steps. "The sooner we reach the
Emerald City, the sooner we'll know where he is!"

The country through which they were passing was beautiful, but quite
deserted. About five o'clock, they came to a clear little stream, and after
Dorothy and Sir Hokus had washed their faces and the Cowardly Lion had
taken a little plunge, they all felt refreshed. Later they came to a fine
pear orchard, and as no one was about they helped themselves generously.

The more Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion saw of Sir Hokus, the fonder of him
they grew. He was so kind-hearted and so polite.

"He'll be great company for us back in the Emerald City," whispered the
Cowardly Lion as the Knight went off to get Dorothy a drink from a little
spring. "That is, if he forgets this grammercy, bludgeon stuff."

"I think it sounds lovely," said Dorothy, "and he's remembering more of it all 
the time. But I wonder why there are no people here. I do hope we meet some 
before night." But no person did they meet. As it grew darker, Sir Hokus' 
armor began to creak in a quite frightful manner. Armor is not meant for 
walking, and the poor Knight was stiff and tired, but he made no complaint.

"Need oiling, don't you?" asked the Cowardly Lion, peering anxiously at him
through the gloom.

"Joints in my armor a bit rusty," puffed Sir Hokus, easing one foot and then
the other. "Ah, had I my good horse!" He expressively waved a piece of the
giant's button at which he had been nibbling.

"Better climb up behind Dorothy," advised the Cowardly Lion, but Sir Hokus
shook his head, for he knew the lion was tired, too.

"I'll manage famously. This very night I may find me a steed!"

"How?" asked the lion with a yawn.

"If I sleep beneath these trees, I may have a Knight mare," chuckled Sir
Hokus triumphantly.

"Br-rrr!" roared the Cowardly Lion while Dorothy clapped her hands. But they
were not to sleep beneath the trees after all, for a sudden turn in the
road brought them right to the gates of another city. They knew it must be
a city because a huge, lighted sign hung over the gate.

"Fix City," read Dorothy. "What a funny name!"

"Maybe they can fix us up," rumbled the lion, winking at Sir Hokus.

"Perchance we shall hear news of the valiant Scarecrow!" cried the Knight,
and limping forward he thumped on the gate with his mailed fist. Dorothy
and the Cowardly Lion pressed close behind him and waited impatiently for
someone to open the gate.

A bell rang loud back in the town. The next instant, the gates flew open so
suddenly that the three adventurers were flung violently on their faces.

"Out upon them!" blustered Sir Hokus, getting up stiffly and running to help
Dorothy. "What way is this to welcome strangers?" He pulled the little girl
hastily to her feet, then they all ran forward, for the gates were swinging
shut again.

It was almost as light as day, for lanterns were everywhere, but strangely
enough they seemed to dart about like huge fireflies, and Dorothy ducked
involuntarily as a red one bobbed down almost in her face. Then she gasped in
real earnest and caught hold of Sir Hokus.

"Uds daggers!" wheezed the Knight. Two large bushes were running down the
path, and right in front of Dorothy the larger caught the smaller and began
pulling out its leaves.

"Leave off! Leave off!" screamed the little bush.

"That's what I'm doing," said the big bush savagely. "There won't be a leaf
on when I get through with you."

"Unhand him, villain!" cried Sir Hokus, waving his sword at the large bush.
The two bushes looked up in surprise, and when they saw Dorothy, the
Cowardly Lion and Sir Hokus, they fell into each other's branches and burst
into the most uproarious laughter.

"My dear Magnolia, this is rich! Oh, dear fellow, wait till Sit sees this;
he will be convulsed!" Quite forgetting their furious quarrel, the two went
rollicking down the path together, stopping every few minutes to look back
and laugh at the three strangers.

"Is this usual?" asked Sir Hokus, looking quite dazed.

"I never heard of bushes talking or running around, but I confess I'm a few
centuries behind times!"

"Neither did I!" exclaimed Dorothy. "But then -- almost anything's likely to
happen in Oz."

"If these lanterns don't look out something will happen. I'll break 'em to
bits," growled the Cowardly Lion, who had been dodging half a dozen at once.

"How would we look -- out?" sniffed one, flying at Dorothy.

"You could light out -- or go out," giggled the little girl.

"We never go out unless we're put out," cried another, but as the Cowardly
Lion made a few springs, they flew high into the air and began talking
indignantly among themselves. By this time, the three had become accustomed
to the changing lights.

"I wonder where the people are," said Dorothy, peering down a wide avenue.
"There don't seem to be any houses. Oh, look!"

Three tables set for dinner with the most appetizing viands were walking
jauntily down the street, talking fluent china.

"There must be people!" cried Dorothy.

"One dinner for each of us," rumbled the Cowardly Lion, licking his chops.
"Come on!"

"Perchance they will invite us. If we follow the dinners, we'll come to the
diners," said Sir Hokus mildly.

"Right -- as usual." The Cowardly Lion looked embarrassed, for he had intended
pouncing on the tables without further ceremony.

"Hush! Let's go quietly. If they hear us, they may run and upset the dishes,"
warned Dorothy. So the three walked softly after the dinner tables, their
curiosity about the people of Fix growing keener at every step. Several
chairs, a sofa and a clothes tree rushed past them, but as Dorothy said later
to Ozma, after talking bushes, nothing surprised them. The tables turned the
corner at the end of the avenue three abreast, and the sight that greeted
Dorothy and her comrades was strange indeed. Down each side of a long street
as far as they could see stood rows and rows of people. Each one was in the
exact center of a chalked circle, and they were so still that Dorothy thought
they must be statues.

But no sooner had the three tables made their appearance than bells began
ringing furiously all up and down the street, and dinner tables and chairs
came running from every direction. All the inhabitants of Fix City looked
alike. They had large, round heads, broad placid faces, double chins, and no
waists whatever. Their feet were flat and about three times as long as the
longest you have ever seen. The women wore plain Mother Hubbard dresses and
straw sailor hats, and the men gingham suits.

While the three friends were observing all this, the tables had been taking
their places. One stopped before each Fix, and the chairs, after much
bumping and quarreling, placed themselves properly. At a signal from the
Fix in the center, the whole company sat down without so much as moving
their feet. Dorothy, Sir Hokus and the Cowardly Lion had been too
interested to speak, but at this minute a whole flock of the mischievous
lanterns clustered over their heads, and at the sudden blare of light the
whole street stopped eating and stared.

"Oh!" cried the Fix nearest them, pointing with his fork, "Look at the
runabouts!"

"This way, please! This way, please! Don't bark your shins. Don't take any
more steps than you can help!" boomed an important voice from the middle of
the street. So down the center marched the three, feeling -- as the
Cowardly Lion put it -- exactly like a circus.

"Stop! Names, please!" The Fix next to the center put up his knife
commandingly. Sir Hokus stepped forward with a bow:

"Princess Dorothy of Oz, the Cowardly Lion of Oz."

"And Sir Hokus of Pokes," roared the Lion as the Knight modestly stepped
back without announcing himself.

"Sir Pokus of Hoax, Howardly Kion of Boz, and Little Girl Beginning with D,"
bellowed the Fix, "meet His Royal Highness, King Fix It, and the noble 
Fixitives."

"Little Girl Beginning with D! That's too long," complained the King, who,
with the exception of his crown, looked like all the rest of them, "I'll
leave out the middle. What do you want, Little With D?"

"My name is Dorothy, and if your Highness could give us some dinner and tell
us something about the Scarecrow and --"

"One thing at a time, please," said the King reprovingly. "What does Poker
want, and Boz? Have they anything to spend?"

"Only the night, an' it please your Gracious Highness," said Sir Hokus with
his best bow.

"It doesn't please me especially," said the King, taking a sip of water. "And
there! You've brought up another question. How do you want to spend it?"

He folded his hands helplessly on the table and looked appealingly at
the Fix next to him. "How am I to settle all these questions, Sticken?
First they come running around like crazy chairs, and --"

"You might ring for a settle," suggested Sticken, looking curiously at Sir
Hokus. The King leaned back with a sigh of relief, then touched a bell.
There were at least twenty bells set on a high post at his right hand, and
all of the Fixes seemed to have similar bell posts.

"He's talking perfect nonsense," said Dorothy angrily. The Cowardly Lion
began to roll his eyes ominously.

"Let me handle this, my dear. I'm used to Kings," whispered Sir Hokus. "Most
of 'em talk nonsense. But if he grows wroth, we'll have all the furniture
in the place around our ears. Now just --"

Bump! Sir Hokus and Dorothy sat down quite suddenly. The settle had arrived
and hit them smartly behind the knees. The Cowardly Lion dodged just in time
and lay down with a growl beside it.

"Now that you're settled," began the King in a resigned voice, "we might try
again. What is your motto?"

This took even Sir Hokus by surprise, but before he could answer, the King
snapped out:

"Come late and stay early! How's that?"

"Very good," said Sir Hokus with a wink at Dorothy.

"Next time, don't come at all," mumbled Sticken Plaster, his mouth full of
biscuit.

"And you wanted?" the King asked uneasily.

"Dinner for three," said the Knight promptly and with another bow.

"Now that's talking." The King looked admiringly at Sir Hokus. "This Little
With D had matters all tangled up. One time at a thing! That's my motto!"

Leaning over, the King pressed another button. By this time, the Fixes had
lost interest in the visitors and went calmly on with their dinners. Three
tables came pattering up, and the settle drew itself up of its own accord.
Dorothy placed the Cowardly Lion's dinner on the ground, and then she and
Sir Hokus enjoyed the first good meal they had had since they left Pokes.
They were gradually becoming used to their strange surroundings.

"You ask him about the Scarecrow," begged Dorothy. Everybody had finished,
and the tables were withdrawing in orderly groups. The King was leaning
sleepily back in his chair.

"Ahem," began the Knight, rising stiffly, "has your Majesty seen aught of a
noble Scarecrow? And could your Supreme Fixity tell us aught --"

The King's eyes opened. "You're out of turn," he interrupted crossly. "We're
only to the second question. How will you spend the night?"

"In sleep," answered Sir Hokus promptly, "if your Majesty permits."

"I do," said the King solemnly. "That gets me out of entertaining. Early to
bed and late to rise, that's my motto. Next! It's your turn," he added
irritably as Sir Hokus did not immediately answer.

"Have you seen aught of the noble Scarecrow?" asked Sir Hokus, and all of
them waited anxiously for the King's reply.

"I don't know about the Scarecrow. I've seen a Scarecrow, and a sensible chap
he was, hanging still like a reasonable person and letting chairs and tables
chase themselves 'round."

"Where was he?" asked Sir Hokus in great agitation.

"In a picture," said the King. "Wait, I'll ring for it."

"No use," said the Knight in a disappointed voice. "We're looking for a man."

"Would you mind telling me why you are all so still, and why all your
furniture runs around?" asked Dorothy, who was growing a little restless.

"You forget where you are, and you're out of turn. But I'll overlook it this
once," said the King. "Have you ever noticed, Little With D, that furniture
lasts longer than people?"

"Why, yes," admitted Dorothy.

"Well, there you are!" King Fix Sit folded his hands and regarded her
complacently. "Here we manage things better. We stand still and let the
furniture run around and wear itself out. How does it strike you?"

"It seem sensible," acknowledged Dorothy. "But don't you ever grow tired of
standing still?"

"I've heard of growing hair and flowers and corn, but never of growing
tired. What is it?" asked Sticken Plaster, leaning toward Dorothy.

"I think she's talked enough," said the King, closing his eyes.

Sir Hokus had been staring anxiously at the King for some time. Now he came
close to the monarch's side, and standing on tiptoe whispered hoarsely:
"Hast any dragons here?"

"Did you say wagons?" asked the King, opening his eyes with a terrible yawn.

"Dragons!" hissed the Knight.

"Never heard of 'em," said the King. The Cowardly Lion chuckled behind his
whiskers, and Sir Hokus in great confusion stepped back.

"What time is it?" demanded the King suddenly. He touched a bell, and next
minute a whole company of clocks came running down the street. The big ones
pushed the little ones, and a grandfather clock ran so fast that it tripped
over a cobblestone and fell on its face, which cracked all the way across.

"You've plenty of time; why don't you take it?" called the King angrily, while
two clothes trees helped the clock to its feet.

"They're all different," giggled Dorothy, nudging the Cowardly Lion. Some
pointed to eight o'clock, some to nine, and others to half past ten.

"Why shouldn't they be different?" asked Sticken haughtily. "Some run faster
than others!"

"Pass the time, please," said the King, looking hard at Dorothy.

"The lazy lump!" growled the Cowardly Lion. But Dorothy picked up the
nearest little clock and handed it to King Fix Sit.

"I thought so," yawned the King, pointing at the clock. At this, everybody
began ringing bells till Dorothy was obliged to cover her ears. In an
instant, the whole street was filled with beds, "rolling up just as if they
were taxis," laughed Dorothy to Sir Hokus. The Knight smiled faintly, but
as he had never seen a taxi, he could not appreciate Dorothy's remark.

"Here come your beds," said the King shortly. "Tell them to take you around
the corner. I can't abide snoring."

"I don't snore, thank you," said Dorothy angrily, but the King had stepped
into his bed and drawn the curtains tight.

"We might as well go to bed, I 'spose," said the little girl. "I'm so tired!"

The three beds were swaying restlessly in the middle of the street. They
were tall, four-post affairs with heavy chintz hangings. Dorothy chose the
blue one, and Sir Hokus lifted her up carefully and then went off to catch
his bed, which had gotten into an argument with a lamppost. When he spoke
to it sharply, it left off and came trotting over to him. The Cowardly
Lion, contrary to his usual custom, leaped into his bed, and soon the three
four-posters were walking quietly down the street, evidently following the
King's instructions.

Dorothy slipped off her shoes and dress and nestled comfortably down among the
soft covers. "Just like sleeping in a train," she thought drowsily. "What a
lot I shall have to tell the Scarecrow and Ozma when I get home."

"Good night!" said the bed politely.

"Good night!" said Dorothy, too nearly asleep to even think it strange for a
bed to talk. "Good night!"



CHAPTER 13

DANCING BEDS AND THE ROADS THAT UNROLLED


"It must be a shipwreck," thought Dorothy, sitting up in alarm. She seemed
to be tossing about wildly.

"Time for little girls to get up," grumbled a harsh voice that seemed to
come from the pillows.

Dorothy rubbed her eyes. One of the bedposts was addressing her, and the big
four-poster itself was dancing a regular jig.

"Oh, stop!" cried Dorothy, holding on to the post to keep from bouncing out.

"Can't you see I'm awake?"

"Well, I go off duty now, and you'll have to hurry," said the bed sulkily.
"I'm due at the lecture at nine."

"Lecture?" gasped Dorothy.

"What's so queer about that?" demanded the bed coldly. "I've got to keep
well posted, haven't I? I belong to a polished set, I do. Hurry up, little
girl, or I'll throw you out."

"I'm glad my bed doesn't talk to me in this impertinent fashion," thought
Dorothy, slipping into her dress and combing her hair with her side comb.
"Imagine being ordered about by a bed! I wonder if Sir Hokus is up."
Parting the curtains, she jumped down, and the bed, without even saying
goodbye, took itself off.

Sir Hokus was sitting on a stile, polishing his armor with a pillowslip he had
taken from his bed, and the Cowardly Lion was lying beside him lazily thumping
his tail and making fun of the passing furniture.

"Have you had breakfast?" asked Dorothy, joining her friends.

"We were waiting for your Ladyship," chuckled the Cowardly Lion. "Would you
mind ordering two for me, Hokus? I find one quite insufficient."

Sir Hokus threw away the pillowslip, and talking cheerfully they walked
toward King Fix Sit's circle. The beds had been replaced by breakfast
tables, and the whole street was eating busily.

"Good morning, King," said Sir Hokus. "Four breakfasts, please."

The king rang a bell four times without looking up from his oatmeal. Seeing
that he did not wish to be disturbed, the three waited quietly for their 
tables.

"In some ways," said Dorothy, contentedly munching a hot roll, "in
some ways this is a very comfortable place."

"In sooth 'tis that," mumbled Sir Hokus, his mouth full of baked apple. As
for the Cowardly Lion, he finished his two breakfasts in no time. "And
now," said Sir Hokus as the tables walked off, "let us continue our quest.
Could'st tell us the way to the Emerald City, my good King Fix?"

"If you go, go away. And if you stay, stay away. That's my motto," answered
King Fix shortly. "I can't have people running around here like common
furniture," he added in a grieved voice. All the Fix Its nodded vigorously.

"Let them take their stand or their departure," said Sticken Plaster firmly.

The King felt in his pocket and brought out three pieces of chalk. "Go to
the end of the street. Choose a place and draw your circle. In five minutes
you will find it impossible to move out of the circle, and you will be
saved all this unnecessary motion."

"But we don't want to come to a standstill," objected Dorothy.

"No, by my good sword!" spluttered the Knight, glaring around nervously.
Then, seeing the King looked displeased, he made a low bow. "If your
Highness could graciously direct us out of the city --"

"Buy a piece of road and go where it takes you," snapped the King.

Seeing no more was to be got out of him, they started down the long street.

"I wonder what they do when it rains?" said Dorothy, looking curiously at
the solemn rows of people.

"Call for roofs, silly!" snapped a Fix, staring at her rudely. "If you would
spend your time thinking instead of walking, you'd know more."

"Go to, and swallow a gooseberry!" roared the Knight, waving his sword at
the Fix, and Dorothy, fearing an encounter, begged him to come on, which he
did -- though with many backward glances.

Fix City seemed to consist of one long street, and they had soon come to the
very end.

"Uds daggers!" gasped Sir Hokus.

"Great palm trees," roared the Cowardly Lion.

As for Dorothy, she could do nothing but stare. The street ended surely
enough, and beyond there was nothing at all. That is, nothing but air.

"Well," said the Cowardly Lion, backing a few paces, "this is a pretty fix."

"Glad you like it," said a wheezy voice. The three travelers turned in
surprise. A huge Fix was regarding them with interest. His circle, which
was the last in the row, was about twenty times as large as the other
circles, and on the edge stood a big sign:'

    ROAD SHOP.

"Don't you remember, the King said something about buying a road," said
Dorothy in an excited undertone to the Knight.

"Can'st direct us to a road, my good man?" asked Sir Hokus with a bow.
The Fix jerked his thumb back at the sign. "What kind of a road to you
want?" he asked hoarsely.

"A road that will take us back to the Emerald City, please," said Dorothy.

"I can't guarantee anything like that," declared the Fix, shaking his head.

"Our roads go where they please, and you'll have to go where they take you.
Do you want to go on or off?"

"On," shivered the Cowardly Lion, looking with a shudder over the precipice
at the end of the street.

"What kind of a road will you have? Make up your minds, please. I am busy."

"What kind of roads have you?" asked Dorothy timidly. It was her first
experience at buying roads, and she felt a bit perplexed.

"Sunny, shady, straight, crooked, and cross-roads," snapped the Fix.

"We wouldn't want a cross one," said Dorothy positively. "Have you any with
trees at both sides and water at the end?"

"How many yards?" asked the Fix, taking a pair of shears as large as himself
off a long counter beside him.

"Five miles," said Sir Hokus as Dorothy looked confused. "That ought to take
us somewhere!"

The Fix rang one of the bells in the counter. The next minute, a big trap door
in the ground opened, and a perfectly huge roll bounced out at his feet.

"Get on," commanded the Fix in such a sharp tone that the three jumped to 
obey. Holding fast to Sir Hokus, Dorothy stepped on the piece of road that had
already unrolled. The Cowardly Lion, looking very anxious, followed. No sooner
had they done so than the road gave a terrific leap forward that stretched the
three flat upon their backs and started unwinding from its spool at a terri-
fying speed. As it unrolled, tall trees snapped erect on each side and began 
laughing derisively at the three travelers huddled together in the middle.

"G-g-glad we only took five miles," stuttered Dorothy to the Knight, whose
armor was rattling like a Ford.

The Cowardly Lion had wound his tail around a tree and dug his claws into the
road, for he had no intention of falling off into nothingness. As for the
road, it snapped along at about a mile a minute, and before they had time to
grow accustomed to this singular mode of travel, it gave a final jump that
sent them circling into the air, and began rapidly winding itself up.

Down, down, down whirled Dorothy, falling with a resounding splash into a
broad stream of water. Then down, down, down again, almost to the bottom.

"Help!" screamed Dorothy as her head rose above water, and she began striking
out feebly. But the fall through the air had taken all her breath.

"What do you want?" A thin, neat little man was watching her anxiously from
the bank, making careful notes in a book that he held in one hand.

"Help! Save me!" choked Dorothy, feeling herself going down in the muddy
stream again.

"Wait! I'll look it up under the 'H's," called the little man, making a
trumpet of his hands. "Are you an island? An island is a body of land entirely
surrounded by water, but this seems to be a some-body," Dorothy heard him
mutter as he whipped over several pages of his book. "Sorry," he called back,
shaking his head slowly, "but this is the wrong day. I only save lives on
Monday."

"Stand aside, Mem, you villain!" A second little man exactly like the first
except that he was exceedingly untidy plunged into the stream.

"It's no use," thought Dorothy, closing her eyes, for he had jumped in far
below the spot where she had fallen and was making no progress whatever.
The waters rushed over her head the second time. Then she felt herself
being dragged upward.

When she opened her eyes, the Cowardly Lion was standing over her. "Are you
all right?" he rumbled anxiously. "I came as soon as I could. Fell in way
upstream. Seen Hokus?"

"Oh, he'll drown," cried Dorothy, forgetting her own narrow escape. "He
can't swim in that heavy armor!"

"Never fear, I'll get him," puffed the Cowardly Lion, and without waiting to
catch his breath he plunged back into the stream. The little man who only
saved lives on Monday now approached timidly. "I'd like to get a statement
from you, if you don't mind. It might help me in the future."

"You might have helped me in the present," said Dorothy, wringing out her
dress. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself."

"I'll make a note of that," said the little man earnestly. "But how did you
feel when you went down?" He waited, his pencil poised over the little book.

"Go away," cried Dorothy in disgust.

"But my dear young lady --"

"I'm not your dear young lady. Oh, dear, why doesn't the Cowardly Lion come
back?"

"Go away, Mem." The second little man, dripping wet, came up hurriedly.

"I was only trying to get a little information," grumbled Mem sulkily.

"I'm sorry I couldn't swim faster," said the wet little man, approaching
Dorothy apologetically.

"Well, thank you for trying," said Dorothy. "Is he your brother? And could
you tell me where you are? You're dressed in yellow, so I 'spose it must be
somewhere in the Winkie Country."

"Right in both cases," chuckled the little fellow. "My name is Ran and his
name is Memo." He jerked his thumb at the retiring twin. "Randum and Memo --
see?"

"I think I do," said Dorothy, half closing her eyes. "Is that why he's
always taking notes?"

"Exactly," said Ran. "I do everything at Random, and he does everything at
memorandum."

"It must be rather confusing," said Dorothy. Then as she caught sight of the
Cowardly Lion dragging Sir Hokus, she jumped up excitedly. Ran, however,
took one look at the huge beast and then fled, calling for Mem at the top
of his voice. And that is the last Dorothy saw of these singular twins.

The Lion dropped Sir Hokus in a limp heap. When Dorothy unfastened his armor,
gallons of water rushed out.

"Sho good of -- of -- you," choked the poor Knight, trying to straighten up.

"Save your breath, old fellow," said the Cowardly Lion, regarding him
affectionately.

"Oh, why did I ask for water on the end of the road?" sighed Dorothy. "But,
anyway, we're in some part of the Winkie Country."

Sir Hokus, though still spluttering, was beginning to revive. "Yon noble
bheast shall be knighted. Uds daggers! That's the shecond time he's shaved 
my life!" Rising unsteadily, he tottered over to the Lion and struck him a 
sharp blow on the shoulder. "Rishe, Shir Cowardly Lion," he cried hoarsely, 
and fell headlong, and before Dorothy or the lion had recovered from their 
surprise he was fast asleep, mumbling happily of dragons and bludgeons.

"We'll have to wait till he gets rested," said Dorothy. "And until I get
dry." She began running up and down, then stopped suddenly before the Lion.

"And there's something else for Professor Wogglebug to put in his book, Sir
Cowardly Lion."

"Oh, that!" mumbled the Cowardly Lion, looking terribly embarrassed. "Whoever
heard of a Cowardly Knight? Nonsense!"

"No, it isn't nonsense," said Dorothy stoutly. "You're a knight from now on.
Won't the Scarecrow be pleased?"

"If we ever find him," sighed the Lion, settling himself beside Sir Hokus.

"We will," said Dorothy gaily. "I just feel it."



CHAPTER 14

SONS AND GRANDSONS GREET THE SCARECROW


Although the Scarecrow had been on Silver Island only a few days, he had
already instituted many reforms, and thanks to his cleverness the people
were more prosperous than ever before. Cheers greeted him wherever he went,
and even old Chew Chew was more agreeable and no longer made bitter remarks
to Happy Toko. The Scarecrow himself, however, had four new wrinkles and
was exceedingly melancholy. He missed the carefree life in Oz, and every
minute that he was not ruling the island he was thinking about his old home
and dear, jolly comrades in the Emerald City.

"I almost hope they will look in the Magic Picture and wish me back again,"
he mused pensively. "But it is my duty to stay here. I have a family to
support." So he resolved to put the best face he could on the matter, and
Happy Toko did his utmost to cheer up his royal master. The second morning
after the great victory, he came running into the silver throne room in a
great state of excitement.

"The honorable Offspring have arriven!" (sic) announced Happy, turning a
somersault. "Come, ancient and amiable Sir, and gaze upon your sons and
grandsons!" The Scarecrow sprang joyously from his silver throne, upsetting
a bowl of silver fish and three silver vases. At last a real family! Ever
since his arrival, the three Princes and their fifteen little sons had been
cruising on the royal pleasure barge, so that the Scarecrow had not caught
a glimpse of them.

"This is the happiest moment of my life!" he exclaimed, clasping his yellow
gloves and watching the door intently. Happy looked a little uneasy, for he
knew the three Princes to be exceedingly haughty and overbearing, but he
said nothing, and next minute the Scarecrow's family stepped solemnly into
the royal presence.

"Children!" cried the Scarecrow, and with his usual impetuousness rushed
forward and flung his arms around the first richly clad Prince.

"Take care! Take care, ancient and honorable papa!" cried the young Silverman, 
backing away. "Such excitement is not good for one of your advanced years." He 
drew himself away firmly and, adjusting a huge pair of silver spectacles, 
regarded the Scarecrow attentively. "Ah, how you have changed!"

"He looks very feeble, Too Fang, but may he live long to rule this flowery
island and our humble selves!" said the second Prince, bowing stiffly.

"Do you not find the affairs of state fatiguing, darling papa?" inquired the
third Prince, fingering a jeweled chain that hung around his neck.

"I, as your eldest son, shall be delighted to relieve you should you wish to
retire. Get back ten paces, you!" he roared at Happy Toko.

The poor Scarecrow had been so taken aback by this cool reception that he
just stared in disbelief.

"If the three honorable Princes will retire themselves, I will speak with my
grandsons," he said dryly, bowing in his most royal manner. The three Princes
exchanged startled glances. Then, with three low salaams, they retired
backward from the hall.

"And now, my dears --!" The Scarecrow looked wistfully at his fifteen silken-
clad little grandsons. Their silver hair, plaited tightly into little queues,
stood out stiffly on each side of their heads and gave them a very curious
appearance. At his first word, the fifteen fell dutifully on their noses. As
soon as they were right side up, the Scarecrow, beginning at the end of the
row, addressed a joking question to each in his most approved Oz style. But
over they went again, and answered merely:

"Yes, gracious Grand-papapapah!" or "No honorable Grandpapapapah!" And the
constant bobbing up and down and papahing so confused the poor Scarecrow that
he nearly gave up the conversation.

"It's no use trying to talk to these children," he wailed in disgust, "they're 
so solemn. Don't you ever laugh?" he cried in exasperation, for he had told 
them stories that would have sent the Oz youngsters into hysterics.

"It is not permissible for a Prince to laugh at the remarks of his honorable
grandparent," whispered Happy Toko, while the fifteen little Princes banged
their heads solemnly on the floor.

"Honorable fiddlesticks!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, slumping back on his
throne. "Bring cushions." Happy Toko ran off nimbly, and soon the fifteen
little Princes were seated in a circle at the Scarecrow's feet. "To prevent
prostrations," said the Scarecrow.

"Yes, old Grandpapapapapah!" chorused the Princes, bending over as far as
they could.

"Wait!" said the Scarecrow hastily, "I'll tell you a story. Once upon a
time, to a beautiful country called Oz, which is surrounded on all sides by
a deadly desert, there came a little girl named Dorothy. A terrible gale --
Well, what's the matter now?" The Scarecrow stopped short, for the oldest
Prince had jerked a book out of his sleeve and was flipping over the pages
industriously.

"It is not on the map, great Grand papapapah," he announced solemnly, and
all of the other little Princes shook their heads and said dully, "Not on
the map."

"Not on the map -- Oz? Of course it's not. Do you suppose we want all the
humans in creation coming there?" Calming down, the Scarecrow tried to
continue his story, but every time he mentioned Oz, the little Princes
shook their heads stubbornly and whispered, "Not on the map," till the
usually good-tempered Scarecrow flew into perfect passion.

"Not on the map, you little villains!" he screamed, forgetting they were his
grandsons. "What difference does that make? Are your heads solid silver?"

"We do not believe in Oz," announced the oldest Prince serenely. "There is
no such place."

"No such place as Oz -- Happy, do you hear that?" The Scarecrow's voice fairly
crackled with indignation. "Why, I thought everybody believed in Oz!"

"Perhaps your Highness can convince them later," suggested the Imperial
Punster. "This way, offspring." His Master, he felt, had had enough family
for one day. So the fifteen little Princes, with fifteen stiff little bows,
took themselves back to the royal nursery. As for the Scarecrow, he paced
disconsolately up and down his magnificent throne room, tripping over his
kimona at every other step.

"You're a good boy, Tappy," said the Scarecrow as Happy returned, "but I tell
you being a grandparent is not what I thought it would be. Did you hear them
tell me right to my face they did not believe in Oz? And my sons -- ugh!"

"Fault of their bringing up," said Happy Toko comfortingly. "If your serene
Highness would just tell me more of that illustrious country!" Happy
knew that nothing cheered the Scarecrow like talking of Oz, and to tell the
truth Happy himself never tired of the Scarecrow's marvelous stories. So
the two slipped quietly into the palace gardens, and the Scarecrow related
for the fourteenth time the story of his discovery by Dorothy and the story
of Ozma, and almost forgot that he was an Emperor.

"Your Highness knows the history of Oz by heart," said Happy admiringly as
the Scarecrow paused.

"I couldn't do that," said the Scarecrow gently, "for you see, Happy, I have
no heart."

"Then I wish we all had none!" exclaimed Happy Toko, rolling up his eyes.
The Scarecrow looked embarrassed, so the little Punster threw back his head
and sang a song he had been making up while the Scarecrow had been telling
his stories:

    The Scarecrow was standing alone in a field,
    Inviting the crows to keep off,
    When the straw in his chest began tickling his vest
    And he couldn't resist a loud cough.

    The noise that was heard so surprised ev'ry bird,
    that the flock flew away in a fright,
    But the Scarecrow looked pleased, and he said "If I'd sneezed
    It wouldn't have been so polite."

"Ho!" roared the Scarecrow, "You're almost as good at making verses as
Scraps, Write that down for me, Tappy. I'd like to show it to her."

"Hush!" whispered Happy, holding up his finger warningly. The Scarecrow turned 
so suddenly that the silver pigtail pinned to the back of his hat wound itself 
tightly around his neck. No wonder! On the other side of the hedge the three 
Princes were walking up and down, conversing in indignant whispers.

"What a horrible shape our honorable Papa has reappeared in. I hear that it 
never wears out," muttered one. "He may continue just as he is for years and 
years. How am I ever to succeed him, I'd like to know. Why, he may outlive us 
all!"

"We might throw him into the silver river," said the second hopefully.

"No use," choked the third. "I was just talking to the Imperial Soothsayer,
and he tells me that no one from this miserable Kingdom of Oz can be
destroyed. But I have a plan. Incline your Royal ears -- listen." The
voices dropped to such a low whisper that neither Happy nor the Scarecrow
could hear one word.

"Treason!" spluttered Happy, making ready to spring through the hedge, but
the Scarecrow seized him by the arm and drew him away.

"I don't believe they like their poor papa," exclaimed the Scarecrow when
they were safely back in the throne room. "I'm feeling older than a
Kinkajou. Ah, Happy Oko, why did I ever slide down my family tree? It has
brought me nothing but unhappiness."



CHAPTER 15

THE THREE PRINCES PLOT TO UNDO THE EMPEROR


"Let me help your Imperial Serenity!"

"Bring a cane!"

"Carefully, now!"

The three royal Princes, with every show of affection, were supporting the
Scarecrow to the silver bench in the garden where he usually sat during
luncheon.

"Are you quite comfortable?" asked the elder. "Here, Happy, you rogue, fetch
a scarf for his Imperial Highness. You must be careful, dear Papa Scarecrow. 
At your age, drafts are dangerous." The rascally Prince wound the scarf about 
the Scarecrow's neck.

"What do you suppose they are up to?" asked the Scarecrow, staring after the
three suspiciously. "Why this sudden devotion? It upsets my Imperial Serenity 
a lot."

"Trying to make you feel old," grumbled Happy. Several hours had passed
since they had overheard the conversation in the garden. The Scarecrow had
decided to watch his sons closely and fall in with any plan they suggested
so they would suspect nothing. Then, when the time came, he would act. Just
what he would do he did not know, but his excellent brains would not, he
felt sure, desert him. Happy Toko sat as close to the Scarecrow as he could
and scowled terribly whenever the Princes approached, which was every
minute or so during the afternoon.

"How is the Scarecrow's celestial old head?"

"Does he suffer from honorable gout?"

"Should they fetch the Imperial Doctor?"

The Scarecrow, who had never thought of age in his whole straw life, became
extremely nervous.

Was he really old? Did his head ache? When no one was looking, he felt himself
carefully all over. Then something of his old time Oz spirit returned. Seizing
the cushion that his eldest son was placing at his back, he hurled it over his
head. Leaping from his throne, he began turning handsprings in a careless and
sprightly manner.

"Don't you worry about your honorable old papa," chuckled the Scarecrow,
winking at Happy Toko. "He's good for a couple of centuries!"

The three Princes stared sourly at this exhibition of youth.

"But your heart," objected the eldest Prince.

"Have none," laughed the Scarecrow. Snatching off the silver cord from
around his waist, he began skipping rope up and down the hall. The Princes,
tapping their foreheads significantly, retired, and the Scarecrow, throwing
his arm around Happy Toko, began whispering in his ear. He had a plan
himself. They would see!

    *    *    *    *    *

Meanwhile, off in his dark cave in one of the silver mountains, the Grand
Gheewizard of the Silver Island was stirring a huge kettle of magic. Every few 
moments he paused to read out of a great yellow book that he had propped up on 
the mantle. The fire in the huge grate leaped fiercely under the big, black 
pot, and the sputtering candles on each side of the book sent creepy shadows 
into the dark cave. Dark chests, books, bundles of herbs, and heaps of gold 
and silver were everywhere. Whenever the Gheewizard turned his back, a 
rheumatic silver-scaled old dragon would crawl toward the fire and swallow a 
mouthful of coals, until the old Gheewizard caught him in the act and chained 
him to a ring in the corner of the cave.

"Be patient, little joy of my heart! Our fortune is about to be made,"
hissed the wizened little man, waving a long iron spoon at the dragon. "You
shall have a bucket of red-hot coals every hour and I a silver cap with a
tassel. Have not the Royal Princes promised it?" The dragon shuffled about
and finally went to sleep, smoking sulkily.

"Is it finished, son of a yellow dog?" Through the narrow opening of the
cave, the youngest Prince stuck his head.

"I am working as fast as I can, Honorable Prince, but the elixir must boil
yet one more night. Tomorrow, when the sun shines on the first bar of your
celestial window, come, and all will be ready."

"Are you sure you have found it?" asked the Prince, withdrawing his head,
for the smoking dragon and steam from the kettle made him cough.

"Quite sure," wheezed the Grand Gheewizard, and fell to stirring the kettle
with all his might.

    *    *    *    *    *

The Scarecrow, although busy with trials in the great courtroom of the
palace, felt that something unusual was in the air. The Princes kept
nodding to one another, and the Grand Chew Chew and General Mugwump had
their heads together at every opportunity.

"Something's going to happen, Tappy. I feel it in my straw," whispered the
Scarecrow as he finished trying the last case. At that very minute, the
Grand Chew Chew arose and held up his hand for silence. Everybody paused in
their way to the exits and looked with surprise at the old Silverman.

"I have to announce," said the Grand Chew Chew in a solemn voice, "that the
Great and Imperial Chang Wang Woe will tomorrow be restored to his own
rightful shape. The Grand Gheewizard of the realm has discovered a magic
formula to break the enchantment and free him from this distressing
Scarecrow body. Behold for the last the Scarecrow of Oz. Tomorrow he will
be our old and glorious Emperor!"

"Old and glorious?" gasped the Scarecrow, nearly falling from his throne.

"Tappy! I forgot to lock up the wizards. Great Cornstarch! Tomorrow I will
be eighty-five years old."

Such cheers greeted the Grand Chew Chew's announcement that no one even
noticed the Scarecrow's distress.

"I, also, have an announcement!" cried the eldest Prince, standing up proudly.
"To make the celebration of my royal Papa's restoration complete, we have
chosen the lovely and charming Orange Blossom for his bride."

"Bride!" gulped the Scarecrow. "But I do not approve of second marriages. 
I refuse to --"

No one paid the slightest attention to the Scarecrow's remarks.

"Hold my hand, Tappy," sighed the Scarecrow weakly. "It may be your last
chance." Then he sat up and stared in good earnest, for the Prince was leading
forward a tall, richly clad lady.

"Orange Blossom!" muttered the Scarecrow under his breath. "He means Lemon
Peel! Silver grandmother, Tappy!" Orange Blossom was a cross-looking Princess
of seventy-five, at least.

"She is a sister of the King of the Golden Islands," whispered General
Mugwump. "Of a richness surpassing your own. Let me felicitate your Highness."

"Fan me, Tappy! Fan me!" gasped the Scarecrow. Then he straightened himself
suddenly. The time had come for action. He would say nothing to anyone, but
that night he would escape and try to find his way back to Oz, family or no
family! He bowed graciously to Princess Orange Blossom, to the Grand Chew
Chew, and to his sons.

"Let everything be made ready for the ceremony, and may tomorrow indeed bring
me to myself," he repeated solemnly. Nothing was talked of that evening but
the Emperor's impending marriage and the Grand Gheewizard's discovery. The
Scarecrow seemed the least excited person in the palace. Sitting on his
throne, he pretended to read the Royal Silver Journal, but he was really
waiting impatiently for the courtiers to retire. Finally, when the last one
had bowed himself out and only Happy Toko remained in the throne room, the
Scarecrow began making his plans.

"It's no use, Tappy," said he, tying up a few little trinkets for Dorothy in
a silk handkerchief, "I'd rather be straw than meat. I'd rather be a plain
Scarecrow in Oz than Emperor of the Earth! They may be my sons, but all
they want is my death. I'm going back to my old friends. I'd rather --". He
got no farther. A huge slave seized him suddenly from behind, while another
caught Happy Toko around his fat little waist.

"Tie them fast," said the eldest Prince, smiling wickedly at the Scarecrow.
"Here, tie him to the beanstalk. Merely a part of the Grand Gheewizard's
formula," he exclaimed maliciously as the struggling Scarecrow was bound
securely to his family tree. "Good night, dear papa Scarecrow. Tomorrow you
will be your old self again, and in a few short years I will be Emperor
of the Silver Islands!"

"This rather upsets our plans, eh Tappy?" wheezed the Scarecrow after a
struggle with his bonds.

"Pigs! Weasels!" choked Tappy. "What are we to do?"

"Alas!" groaned the Scarecrow. "Tomorrow there will be no Scarecrow in Oz.
What will Dorothy and Ozma think? And once I am changed into my old
Imperial self, I can never make the journey to the Emerald City. Eighty-six
is too old for traveling."

"Has your Majesty forgotten the wonderful brains given to you by the Wizard
of Oz?"

"I had -- for a moment," confessed the Scarecrow. "Be quiet, Tappy, while I
think." Pressing his head against the magic beanpole, the Scarecrow thought
and thought, harder than he had ever done in the course of his adventurous
life, and in the great, silent hall Happy Toko struggled to set himself free.



CHAPTER 16

DOROTHY AND HER GUARDIANS MEET NEW FRIENDS


While all these exciting things were happening to the poor Scarecrow,
Dorothy, Sir Hokus and the Cowardly Lion had been having adventures of
their own. For three days, they had wandered through a deserted part of the
Winkie Country, subsisting largely on berries, sleeping under trees, and
looking in vain for a road to lead them back to the Emerald City. On the
second day, they had encountered an ancient woodsman, too old and deaf to
give them any information. He did, however, invite them into his hut and
give them a good dinner and a dozen sandwiches to carry away with them.

"But, oh, for a good old pasty!" sighed Sir Hokus late on the third
afternoon as they finished the last of the crumbly sandwiches.

"Do you know," said Dorothy, looking through the straggly fields and woods
ahead, "I believe we've been going in the wrong direction again."

"Again!" choked the Cowardly Lion. "You mean still. I've been in a good many
parts of Oz, but this -- this is the worst."

"Not even one little dragon!" Sir Hokus shook his head mournfully. Then,
seeing that Dorothy was tired and discouraged, he pretended to strum on a
guitar and sang in his high-pitched voice:

    A rusty Knight in steel bedite
    And Lady Dot, so fair,
    Sir Lion bold, with mane of gold
    And might besides to spa--ha--hare!
    And might beside to spare!
    The dauntless three, a company
    Of wit and bravery are,
    Who seek the valiant Scarecrow man,
    Who seek him near and fa--har--har,
    Who seek him near and fa--har!

"Oh, I like that!" cried Dorothy, jumping up and giving Sir Hokus a little
squeeze. "Only you should have said trusty Knight."

The Cowardly Lion shook his golden mane. "Let's do a little reconnoitering,
Hokus," he said carelessly. He felt he must live up to the song somehow.
"Perhaps we'll find a sign."

"I don't believe in signs anymore," laughed Dorothy, "but I'm coming too."
Sir Hokus' song had cheered them all, and it wasn't the first time the
Knight had helped make the best of a tiresome journey.

"The air seemeth to grow very hot," observed Sir Hokus after they had walked
along silently for a time. "Hast noticed it, Sir Cowardly?"

"No, but I've swallowed some of it," coughed the Cowardly Lion, looking
suspiciously through the trees.

"I'll just step forward and see what it is," said the Knight. As he
disappeared, the truth dawned on Dorothy.

"Wait! Wait! Don't go! Please, please, Sir Hokus, come back, come back!"
cried the little girl, running after him as fast as she could.

"What's the matter?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion, thudding behind her. Then
both, coming suddenly out of the woods, gave a terrible scream, which so
startled Sir Hokus that he fell over backwards. Just in time, too, for
another step would have taken him straight on to the Deadly Desert, which
destroys every living thing and keeps all intruders away from Oz.

"What befell?" puffed Sir Hokus, getting to his feet. Naturally, he knew
nothing of the poisonous sands.

"You did," wheezed the Cowardly Lion in an agitated voice.

"Was it a dragon?" asked the Knight, limping toward them hopefully.

"Sit down!" The Cowardly Lion mopped his brow with his tail. "One step on
that desert and it would have been one long goodnight."

"I should say it would!" shuddered Dorothy, and explained to Sir Hokus the
deadly nature of the sands. "And do you know what this means?" Dorothy was
nearer to tears than even I like to think about. "It means we've come in
exactly the wrong direction and are farther away from the Emerald City than
we were when we started."

"And seek him near and fa--hah--har," mumbled Sir Hokus with a very
troubled light in his kindly blue eyes.

"And seek him near and far."

"Fah--har--har! I should say it was," said the Cowardly Lion bitterly. "But
you needn't sing it."

"No, I s'pose not. Uds helmets and hauberks! I s'pose not!" The Knight lapsed
into a discouraged silence, and all three sat and stared drearily at the 
stretch of desert before them and thought gloomily of the rough country behind.

"It's a caravan," wheezed a hoarse voice.

"I doubt that, Camy, I doubt it very much." The shrill nasal voices so
startled the three travelers that they swung about in astonishment.

"Great dates and deserts!" burst out the Cowardly Lion, jumping up. And on
the whole, this exclamation was entirely suitable, for ambling toward them
were a long-legged camel and a wobbly-necked dromedary.

"At last! A steed!" cried the Knight, bounding to his feet.

"I doubt that." The dromedary stopped and looked at him coldly.

"Try me," said the camel amiably. "I'm more comfortable."

"I doubt that, too."

    "The doubtful dromedary wept,
    As o'er the desert sands he stept,
    Association with the sphinx
    Has made him doubtful, so he thinks!"

chortled the Knight with his head on one side.

"How did you know?" asked the Dromedary, opening his eyes wide.

"It just occurred to me," admitted Sir Hokus, clearing his throat modestly.

"I doubt that. Somebody told you," said the Doubtful Dromedary bitterly.

"Pon my honor," said Sir Hokus.

"I doubt it, I doubt it very much," persisted the Dromedary, wagging his
head sorrowfully.

"You seem to doubt everything!" Dorothy laughed in spite of herself, and the
Dromedary regarded her sulkily.

"He does," said the Camel. "It makes him very doubtful company. Now, I like
to be comfortable and happy, and you can't be if you're always doubting
things and people and places. Eh, my dear?"

"Where did you comfortable and doubtful parties come from?" asked the
Cowardly Lion. "Strangers here?"

"Well, yes," admitted the Camel, nibbling the branch of a tree. "There was a
terrific sandstorm, and after blowing and blowing and blowing, we found
ourselves in this little wood. The odd part of it is that you talk in our
language. Never knew a two-leg to understand a word of Camelia before."

"You're not talking Camelia, you're talking Ozish," laughed Dorothy. "All
animals can talk here."

"Well, now, that's very comfortable, I must say," sighed the Camel, "and if
you'd just tell me where to go, it would be more comfortable still."

"I doubt that," snapped the Dromedary. "They're no caravan."

"Where do you want to go?" asked the Cowardly Lion, ignoring the Doubtful
Dromedary.

"Anywhere, just so we keep moving. We're used to being told when to start
and stop, and life is mighty lonely without our Karwan Bashi," sighed the
Comfortable Camel.

"Why, I didn't know you smoked!" exclaimed Dorothy in surprise. She thought
the camel was referring to a brand of tobacco.

"He means his camel driver," whispered Sir Hokus, eyeing the soft, pillowed
seat on the camel's back longingly. Besides the seat, great sacks and bales
of goods hung from its sides. The Doubtful Dromedary was similarly loaded.

"Goodness!" exclaimed Dorothy. A sudden idea had struck her. "You haven't
anything to eat in those sacks, have you?"

"Plenty, my child -- plenty!" answered the Camel calmly.

"Three cheers for the Comfortable Camel!" roared the Cowardly Lion, while
Sir Hokus, following the camel's directions, carefully unfastened a large,
woven basket from one of the sacks on its side.

"You may be my Karwan Bashi," announced the Comfortable Camel judiciously as
Sir Hokus paused for breath.

"Hear that, Lady Dot?" Sir Hokus swept the camel a bow and fairly beamed with
pleasure. Dorothy, meanwhile, had set out an appetizing repast on a small,
rocky ledge -- a regular feast, it appeared to the hungry travelers. There
were loaves of black bread, figs, dates, cheese, and a curious sort of dried
meat which the Cowardly Lion swallowed in great quantities.

"Isn't this cozy?" said Dorothy, forgetting the long, weary way ahead. "My,
I'm glad we met you!"

"Very comforting to us, too, my dear," said the Camel, swaying complacently.
"Isn't it, Doubty?"

"There are some silk cushions in my right-hand saddle sack, but I doubt very
much whether you'll like 'em," mumbled the Dromedary gruffly.

"Out with them!" cried Sir Hokus, pouncing on the Doubtful Dromedary, and in
a minute each of the party had a cushion and was as snug as possible.

"Could anything have been more fortunate?" exulted the Knight. "We can now
resume our journey properly mounted."

"I think I'll ride the Cowardly Lion," said Dorothy, looking uneasily at the
high seat on the camel's back. "Let's start before it grows any darker."

They had eaten to heart's content, and now, packing up the remainder of the
feast, the little party made ready to start.

Sir Hokus, using the Cowardly Lion as a footstool, mounted the camel, and then
Dorothy climbed on her old friend's back, and the little caravan moved slowly
through the forest.

"There's a tent in my left-hand saddle sack, but I doubt very much whether
you can put it up," said the Doubtful Dromedary, falling in behind the
Comfortable Camel. "I doubt it very much indeed."

"How now, what means this doubting?" called Sir Hokus from his perilous
seat. "I'll pitch it when the time comes."

"Mind you don't pitch out when the Camel goes!" called the Cowardly Lion, who
would have his little joke. Sir Hokus, to tell the truth, was feeling tossed
about and dizzy, but he was too polite to mention the fact. As they proceeded,
Dorothy told the Comfortable Camel all about the Scarecrow and Oz.

An occasional word jolted down from above told her that the Knight was
singing. They had gone possibly a mile when Dorothy pointed in excitement
to a road just ahead.

"We must have missed it before! Wait, I'll see what it's like." Jumping down
from the Cowardly Lion's back, she peered curiously at the narrow,
tree-lined path. "Why, here's a sign!"

"What of?" asked the Comfortable Camel, lurching forward eagerly and nearly
unseating the Knight.

    WISH WAY

read Dorothy in a puzzled voice.

"Looks like a pretty good road," said the Comfortable Camel, squinting up
its eyes.

"I doubt it, Camy, I doubt it very much," said the Doubtful Dromedary
tremulously.

"What does my dear Karwan Bashi think?" asked the Comfortable Camel, looking
adoringly back at the Knight.

"It is unwise to go back when the journey lieth forward," said the Knight,
and immediately returned to his song. So, single file, the little company
turned in at the narrow path, the Comfortable Camel advancing with timid
steps and the Doubtful Dromedary bobbing his head dubiously.



CHAPTER 17

DOUBTY AND CAMY VANISH INTO SPACE


For a short time, everything went well. Then Dorothy, turning to see how Sir
Hokus was getting along, discovered that the Doubtful Dromedary had
disappeared.

"Why, where in the world?" exclaimed Dorothy. The Comfortable Camel craned
his wobbly neck and, when he saw that his friend was gone, burst into
tears. His sobs heaved Sir Hokus clear out of his seat and flung him,
helmet first, into the dust.

"Go to!" exploded the Knight, sitting up. "If I were a bird, riding in yon
nest would be easier." The last of his sentence ended in a hoarse croak. Sir 
Hokus vanished, and a great raven flopped down in the center of the road.

"Oh, where is my dear Karwan Bashi? Oh, where is Doubty?" screamed the
Comfortable Camel, running around in frenzied circles. "I wish I'd never
come on this path!"

"Magic!" gasped Dorothy, clutching the Cowardly Lion's mane. The Comfortable
Camel had melted into air before their very eyes.

"I doubt it, I doubt it very much!" coughed a faint voice close to her ear.
Dorothy ducked her head involuntarily as a big yellow butterfly settled on
the Cowardly Lion's ear.

"Our doubtful friend," whispered the lion weakly. "Oh, be careful, Dorothy
dear. We may turn into frogs or something worse any minute."

Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion had had experiences with magic transformations,
and the little girl, pressing her fingers to her eyes, tried to think of
something to do. The raven was making awkward attempts to fly and cawing "Go
to, now!" every other second.

"Oh, I wish dear Sir Hokus were himself again," wailed Dorothy after trying
in vain to recall some magic sentences. Presto! The Knight stood before
them, a bit breathless from flying, but hearty as ever.

"I see! I see!" said the Cowardly Lion with a little prance. "Every wish you
make on this road comes true. Remember the sign: 'Wish Way.' I wish the
Comfortable Camel were back. I wish the Doubtful Dromedary were himself
again," muttered the Cowardly Lion rapidly, and in an instant the two
creatures were standing in the path.

"Uds bodikins! So I did wish myself a bird!" gasped the Knight, rubbing his
gauntlets together excitedly.

"There you are! There you are!" cried the Comfortable Camel, stumbling
toward him and resting his foolish head on his shoulder. "Dear, dear Karwan
Bashi! And Doubty, old fellow, there you are too! Ah, how comfortable this
all is."

"Not two -- one," wheezed the Doubtful Dromedary. "And Camy, I doubt very
much whether I'd care for butterflying. I just happened to wish myself
one!"

"Don't make any more wishes," said the Cowardly Lion sternly.

"Methinks a proper wish might serve us well," observed Sir Hokus. He had
been pacing up and down in great excitement. "Why not wish --"

"Oh, stop!" begged Dorothy. "Wait till we've thought it all out. Wishing's
awfully particular work!"

"One person better speak for the party," said the Cowardly Lion. "Now, I
suggest --"

"Oh, be careful!" screamed Dorothy again. "I wish you would all stop
wishing!" Sir Hokus looked at her reproachfully. No wonder. At Dorothy's
words, they all found themselves unable to speak. The Doubtful Dromedary's
eyes grew rounder and rounder. For the first time in its life, it was
unable to doubt anything.

"Now I'll have to do it all," thought Dorothy, and closing her eyes she tried
to think of the very best wish for everybody concerned. It was night and
growing darker. The Cowardly Lion, the Camel and Dromedary and Sir Hokus
peered anxiously at the little girl, wondering what in the world was going to
happen. Being wished around is no joke. For five minutes Dorothy thought and
thought. Then, standing in the middle of the road, she made her wish in a
clear, distinct voice. It was not a very long wish. To be exact, it had only
eight words. Eight -- short -- little words! But stars! No sooner were they
out of Dorothy's mouth than the earth opened with a splintering crash and
swallowed up the whole company!



CHAPTER 18

DOROTHY FINDS THE SCARECROW!


The next thing Dorothy knew, she was sitting on the hard floor of a  great,
dark hall. One lantern burned feebly, and in the dim, silvery light she
could just make out the Comfortable Camel scrambling awkwardly to his feet.

"I smell straw," sniffed the Camel softly.

"I doubt very much whether I am going to like this place." The voice of the
Doubtful Dromedary came hesitatingly through the gloom.

"By sword and scepter!" gasped the Knight, "Are you there, Sir Cowardly?"

"Thank goodness, they are!" said Dorothy. Wishing other people about is a
risky and responsible business. "They're all here, but I wonder where here
is." She jumped up, but at a shuffle of feet drew back.

"Pigs! Weasels!" shrilled an angry voice, and a fat little man hurled
himself at Sir Hokus, who happened to have fallen in the lead.

"Uds trudgeons and bludgeons and maugre thy head!" roared the Knight,
shaking him off like a fly.

"Tappy, Tappy, my dear boy. Caution! What's all this?" At the sound of that
dear, familiar voice Dorothy's heart gave a skip of joy, and without
stopping to explain she rushed forward.

"Dorothy!" cried the Scarecrow, stepping on his kimona and falling off his
silvery throne. "Lights, Tappy! More lights, at once!" But Tappy was too busy
backing away from Sir Hokus of Pokes.

"Approach, vassal!" thundered the Knight, who under-stood not a word of
Tappy's speech. "Approach! I think I've been insulted!" He drew his sword
and glared angrily through the darkness, and Tappy, having backed as far as
possible, fell heels over pigtail into the silver fountain. At the loud
splash, Dorothy hastened to the rescue.

"They're friends, and we've found the Scarecrow, we've found the Scarecrow!"
She seized Sir Hokus and shook him till his armor rattled.

"Tappy! Tappy!" called the Scarecrow. "Where in the world did he pagota?"
That's exactly what he said, but to Dorothy it sounded like no language at all.

"Why," she cried in dismay, "it's the Scarecrow, but I can't understand a
word he's saying!"

"I think he must be talking Turkey," droned the Comfortable Camel, "or
donkey! I knew a donkey once, a very uncomfortable party, I --"

"I doubt it's donkey," put in the Dromedary importantly, but no one paid any
attention to the two beasts. For Happy Toko had at last dragged himself out
of the fountain and set fifteen lanterns glowing.

"Oh!" gasped Dorothy as the magnificent silver throne room was flooded with
light, "Where are we?"

The Scarecrow had picked himself up, and with outstretched arms came running
toward her talking a perfect Niagara of Silver Islandish.

"Have you forgotten your Ozish so soon?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion
reproachfully as Dorothy flung her arms around the Scarecrow. The
Scarecrow, seeing the Cowardly Lion for the first time, fairly fell upon
his neck. Then he brushed his clumsy hand across his forehead.

"Wasn't I talking Ozish?" he asked in a puzzled voice.

"Oh, now you are!" exclaimed Dorothy. And sure enough, the Scarecrow was
talking plain Ozish again. (Which I don't mind telling you is also plain
English.)

The Knight had been watching this little reunion with hardly repressed
emotion. Advancing hastily, he dropped on one knee.

"My good sword and lance are ever at thy service, my Lord Scarecrow!" he
exclaimed feelingly.

"Who is this impulsive person?" gulped the Scarecrow, staring in undisguised
astonishment at the kneeling figure of the (yes, the "the" is there) Sir
Hokus of Pokes.

"He's my Knight Errant, and he's taken such good care of me," explained
Dorothy eagerly.

"Splendid fellow," hissed the Cowardly Lion in the Scarecrow's other painted
ear, "if he does talk odds and ends."

"Any friend of little Dorothy's is my friend," said the Scarecrow, shaking
hands with Sir Hokus warmly. "But what I want to know is how you all got here."

"First tell us where we are," begged the little girl, for the Scarecrow's
silver hat and queue filled her with alarm.

"You are on the Silver Island," said the Scarecrow slowly. "And I am the
Emperor -- or his good-for-nothing spirit -- and tomorrow," the Scarecrow
glared around wildly, "tomorrow I'll be eighty-five going on eighty-six."
His voice broke and ended in a barely controlled sob.

"Doubt that," drawled the Doubtful Dromedary sleepily.

"Eighty-five years old!" gasped Dorothy. "Why, no one in Oz grows any older!"

"We are no longer in Oz." The Scarecrow shook his head sadly. Then, fixing
the group with a puzzled stare, he exclaimed, "But how did you get here?"

"On a wish," said the Knight in a hollow voice.

"Yes," said Dorothy, "we've been hunting you all over Oz, and at last we
came to Wish Way, and I said 'I wish we were all with the Scarecrow,' just
like that -- and next minute --"

"We fell and fell -- and fell -- and fell," wheezed the Comfortable Camel.

"And fell -- and fell -- and fell -- and fell," droned the Dromedary, "And --"

"Here you are," finished the Scarecrow hastily, for the Dromedary showed
signs of going on forever.

"Now tell us every single thing that has happened to you," demanded Dorothy
eagerly.

Happy Toko had recognized Dorothy and the Cowardly Lion from the Scarecrow's
description, and he now approached with an arm full of cushions. These he
set in a circle on the floor, with one for the Scarecrow in the center, and
with a warning finger on his lips placed himself behind his Master.

"Tappy is right!" exclaimed the Scarecrow. "We must be as quiet as possible,
for a great danger hangs over me."

Without more ado, he told them of his amazing fall down the beanstalk; of
his adventures on Silver Island; of his sons and grandsons and the
Gheewizard's elixir which would turn him from a lively Scarecrow into an
old, old Emperor. All that I have told you, he told Dorothy, up to the very
point where his eldest son had bound him to the bean pole and tied up poor,
faithful Happy Toko. Happy, it seems, had at last managed to free himself,
and they were about to make their escape when Dorothy and her party had
fallen into the throne room. The Comfortable Camel and Doubtful Dromedary
lis-tened politely at first, but worn out by their exciting adventures,
fell asleep in the middle of the story.

Nothing could have exceeded Dorothy's dismay to learn that the jolly Scarecrow
of Oz, whom she had discovered herself, was in reality Chang Wang Woe, Emperor
of Silver Island.

"Oh, this spoils everything!" wailed the little girl. (The thought of Oz
without the Scarecrow was unthinkable.) "It spoils everything! We were
going to adopt you and be your truly family. Weren't we?"

The Cowardly Lion nodded. "I was going to be your cousin," he mumbled in a
choked voice, "but now that you have a family of your own --" The
lion miserably slunk down beside Dorothy.

Sir Hokus looked fierce and rattled his sword, but he could think of nothing
that would help them out of their trouble.

"To-morrow there won't be any Scarecrow in Oz!" wailed Dorothy. "Oh, dear!
Oh, dear!" And the little girl began to cry as if her heart would break.

"Stop! Stop!" begged the Scarecrow, while Sir Hokus awkwardly patted Dorothy
on the back. "I'd rather have you for my family any day. I don't care a
Kinkajou for being Emperor, and as for my sons, they are unnatural villains
who make my life miserable by telling me how old I am!"

"Just like a poem I once read," said Dorothy, brightening up:

    "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
    "And your hair has become very white,
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head!
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?"

"That's it, that's it exactly!" exclaimed the Scarecrow as Dorothy finished
repeating the verse. " 'You are old, Father Scarecrow!' That's all I hear.
I did stand on my head, too. And Dorothy, I can't seem to get used to being
a grandparent," added the Scarecrow in a melancholy voice. "It's turning my
straws gray." He plucked several from his chest and held them out to her.
"Why, those little villains don't even believe in Oz! 'It's not on the map,
old Grandpapapapapah!' " he mumbled, imitating the tones of his little
grandsons so cleverly that Dorothy laughed in spite of herself.

"This is what becomes of pride!" The Scarecrow extended his hands
expressively. "Most people who hunt up their family trees are in for a fall,
and I've had mine."

"But who do you want to be?" asked the Knight gravely. "A Scarecrow in Oz --
or the -- er -- Emperor that you were?"

"I don't care who I were!" In his excitement, the Scarecrow lost his grammar
completely. "I want to be who I am. I want to be myself."

"But which one?" asked the Cowardly Lion, who was still a bit confused.

"Why, my best self, of course," said the Scarecrow with a bright smile. The
sight of his old friends had quite restored his cheerfulness. "I've been
here long enough to know that I am a better Scarecrow than an Emperor."

"Why, how simple it is!" sighed Dorothy contentedly. "Professor Wogglebug
was all wrong. It's not what you were, but what you are -- it's being
yourself that counts."

"By my Halidom, the little maid is right!" said Sir Hokus, slapping his knee
in delight. "Let your Gheewizard but try his transformations! Out on him!
But what says yon honest henchman?" Happy Toko, although he understood no
word of the conversation, had been watching the discussion with great
interest. He had been trying to attract the Scarecrow's attention for some
time, but the Knight was the only one who had noticed him.

"What is it, Tappy?" asked the Scarecrow, dropping easily back into Silver
Islandish.

"Honored Master, the dawn approaches and with it the Royal Princes and the
Grand Gheewizard -- and your bride!" Happy paused significantly. The
Scarecrow shuddered.

"Let's go back to Oz!" said the Cowardly Lion uneasily.

The Scarecrow was feeling in the pocket of his old Munchkin suit which he
always wore under his robes of state. "Here!" said he, giving a little pill
to Happy Toko. "It's one of Professor Wogglebug's language pills," he
exclaimed to Dorothy, "and will enable him to speak and understand Ozish."
Happy swallowed the pill gravely.

"Greetings, honorable Ozites!" he said politely as soon as the pill was
down. Dorothy clapped her hands in delight, for it was so comfortable to
have him speak their own language.

"I could never have stood it here without Tappy Oko!" The Scarecrow looked
fondly at his Imperial Punster.

"Queer name he has," rumbled the Cowardly Lion, looking at Happy Toko as if
he had thoughts of eating him.

"Methinks he should be knighted," rumbled Sir Hokus, beaming on the little
Silverman. "Rise, Sir Pudding!"

"The sun will do that in a minute or more, and then, then we shall all be
thrown into prison!" wailed Happy Toko dismally.

"We were going to escape in a small boat," explained the Scarecrow, "but --"
It was not necessary for him to finish. A boat large enough to hold Dorothy,
the Cowardly Lion, the Scarecrow, Happy Toko, the camel and the dromedary
could not very well be launched in secret.

"Oh, dear!" sighed Dorothy, "If I'd only wished you and all of us back in
the Emerald City!"

"You wished very well, Lady Dot," said the Knight. "When I think of what I
was going to wish for --"

"What were you going to wish, Hokus?" asked the Cowardly Lion curiously.

"For a dragon!" faltered the Knight, looking terribly ashamed.

"A dragon!" gasped Dorothy. "Why, what good would that have done us?"

"Wait!" interrupted the Scarecrow. "I have thought of something! Why not
climb my family tree? It is a long, long way, but at the top lies Oz!"

"Grammercy, a pretty plan!" exclaimed Sir Hokus, peering up at the bean pole.

"Wouldn't that be social climbing?" chuckled Happy Toko, recovering his
spirits with a bound. The Cowardly Lion said nothing, but heaved a mighty
sigh which no one heard, for they were all running toward the bean pole. It
was a good family tree to climb, sure enough, for there were handy little
notches in the stalk.

"You go first!" Sir Hokus helped Dorothy up. When she had gone a few steps,
the Scarecrow, holding his robes carefully, followed, then honest Happy Toko.

"I'll go last," said Sir Hokus bravely, and had just set his foot on the
first notch when a hoarse scream rang through the hall.



CHAPTER 19

PLANNING TO FLY FROM THE SILVER ISLAND


It was the Comfortable Camel. Waking suddenly, he found himself deserted. "Oh,
where is my dear Karwan Bashi?" he roared dismally. "Come back! Come back!"

"Hush up, can't you?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion. "Do you want Dorothy and
everybody to be thrown into prison on our account? We can't climb the bean
pole and will have to wait here and face it out."

"But how uncomfortable," wailed the camel. He began to sob heavily. Dorothy,
although highest up the bean pole, heard all of this distinctly. "Oh," she
cried remorsefully, "we can't desert the Cowardly Lion like this. I never
thought about him."

"Spoken like the dear little Maid you are," said the Knight. "The good beast
never reminded us of it, either. There's bravery for you!"

"Let us descend at once, I'll not move a step without the Cowardly Lion!" In
his agitation, the Scarecrow lost his balance and fell headlong to the ground,
knocking Sir Hokus's helmet terribly askew as he passed. The others made haste
to follow him and were soon gathered gravely at the foot of the beanstalk.

"I'll have to think of some other plan," said the Scarecrow, looking
nervously at the sky, which showed, through the long windows, the first
streaks of dawn. The Comfortable Camel controlled its sobs with difficulty
and pressed as close to Sir Hokus as it could. The Doubtful Dromedary was
still asleep.

"It would have been a terrible climb," mused the Scarecrow, thinking of his
long, long fall down the pole. "Ah, I have it!"

"What?" asked Dorothy anxiously.

"I wonder I did not think of it before. Ah, my brains are working better! I
will abdicate," exclaimed the Scarecrow triumphantly. "I will abdicate,
make a farewell speech, and return with you to Oz!"

"What if they refuse to let your radiant Highness go?" put in Happy Toko
tremulously. "What if the Gheewizard should work his magic before you
finished your speech?"

"Then we'll make a dash for it!" said Sir Hokus, twirling his sword recklessly.

"I'm with you," said the Cowardly Lion huskily, "but you needn't have come
back for me."

"All right!" said the Scarecrow cheerfully. "And now that everything's
settled so nicely, we might as well enjoy the little time left. Put out the
lights, Tappy. Dorothy and I will sit on the throne, and the rest of you
come as close as possible."

Sir Hokus wakened the Doubtful Dromedary and pulled and tugged it across the
hall, where it immediately fell down asleep again. The Comfortable Camel
ambled about eating the flowers out of the vases. The Cowardly Lion had placed
himself at Dorothy's feet, and Sir Hokus and Happy Toko seated themselves upon
the first step of the gorgeous silver throne.

Then, while they waited for morning, Dorothy told the Scarecrow all about the
Pokes and Fix City, and the Scarecrow told once again of his victory over the
king of the Golden Islands.

"Where is the magic fan now?" asked Dorothy at the end of the story.

The Scarecrow smiled broadly, and feeling in a deep pocket brought out the
little fan and also the parasol he had plucked from the beanstalk. "Do you
know," he said smiling, "so much has happened I haven't thought of them
since the battle. I was saving them for you, Dorothy."

"For me!" exclaimed the little girl in delight. "Let me see them!" The
Scarecrow handed them over obligingly, but Happy Toko trembled so violently
that he rolled down the steps of the throne.

"I beg of you!" He scrambled to his feet and held up his hands in terror. "I
beg of you, don't open that fan!"

"She's used to magic, Tappy. You needn't worry," said the Scarecrow easily.

"Of course I am," said Dorothy with great dignity. "But this'll be mighty
useful if anyone tries to conquer Oz again. We can just fan 'em away."

Dorothy pulled a hair from the Cowardly Lion's mane, and winding it around
the little fan, put it carefully in the pocket of her dress. The parasol
she hung by its ribbon to her arm.

"Perhaps Ozma will look in the Magic Picture and wish us all back again," said
the little girl after they had sat for a time in silence.

"I doubt it." The Dromedary stirred and mumbled in its sleep.

"Singular beast, that!" ejaculated the Knight. "Doubting never gets one 
anywhere."

"Hush!" warned the Scarecrow. "I hear footsteps!"

"Come here." Sir Hokus called hoarsely to the camel, who was eating a paper
lantern at the other end of the room. The beast ran awkwardly over to the
throne, and swallowing the lantern with a convulsive gulp, settled down
beside the dromedary.

"Whatever happens, we must stick together," said the Knight emphatically.
"Ah --!"

Dorothy held fast to the Scarecrow with one hand and to the throne with the
other. The sun had risen at last. There was a loud crash of drums and
trumpets, a rush of feet, and into the hall marched the most splendid
company Dorothy had seen in her whole life of adventures.



CHAPTER 20

DOROTHY UPSETS THE CEREMONY OF THE ISLAND


"A caravan!" whistled the Comfortable Camel, lurching to his feet. "How nice!"

"I doubt that!" The dromedary's eyes flew open, and he stared sleepily at
the magnificent procession of Silver Islanders.

First came the musicians, playing their shining silver trumpets and flutes.
The Grand Chew Chew and General Mugwump followed, attired in brilliant silk
robes of state. Then came the three Princes, glittering with jeweled chains
and medals, and the fifteen little Princes, like so many silver butterflies in
their satin kimonas. Next appeared a palanquin bearing the veiled Princess
Orange Blossom, followed by a whole company of splendid courtiers and after
them as many of the everyday Silver Islanders as the hall would hold. There
was a moment of silence. Then the whole assemblage, contrary to the
Scarecrow's edict, fell upon their faces.

"My!" exclaimed Dorothy, impressed in spite of herself. "Are you sure you
want to give up all this?"

"Great Emperor, beautiful as the sun, wise as the stars, and radiant as the
clouds, the Ceremony of Restoration is about to begin!" quavered the Grand
Chew Chew, rising slowly. Then he paused, for he was suddenly confused by
the strange company around the Scarecrow's throne.

"Treachery!" hissed the eldest Prince to the others. "We left him tied to
the bean pole. Ancient Papa Scarecrow needs watching! Who are these curious
objects he has gathered about him, pray?"

Now by some magic which even I cannot explain, the people from Oz found they
could understand all that was being said. When Dorothy heard herself called
an object and saw the wicked faces of the three Princes and the stupid
little grandsons, she no longer wondered at the Scarecrow's decision.

The Scarecrow himself bowed calmly. "First," said he cheerfully, "let me
introduce my friends and visitors from Oz."

The Silver Islanders, who really loved the Scarecrow, bowed politely as he
called out the names of Dorothy and the others. But the three Silver Princes
scowled and whispered indignantly among themselves.

"I am growing very wroth!" choked Sir Hokus to the Cowardly Lion.

"Let the ceremony proceed!" called the eldest Prince harshly, before the
Scarecrow had finished his introductions. "Let the proper body of his
Serene Highness be immediately restored. Way for the Grand Gheewizard! Way
for the Grand Gheewizard!"

"One moment," put in the Scarecrow in a dignified voice. "I have something
to say." The Silver Islanders clapped loudly at this, and Dorothy felt a
bit reassured. Perhaps they would listen to reason after all and let the
Scarecrow depart peacefully. How they were ever to escape if they didn't,
the little girl could not see.

"My dear children," began the Scarecrow in his jolly voice, "nothing could
have been more wonderful than my return to this lovely island, but in the
years I have been away from you I have changed very much, and I find I no
longer care for being Emperor. So with your kind permission, I will keep
the excellent body I now have and will abdicate in favor of my eldest son
and return with my friends to Oz. For in Oz I really belong."

A dead silence followed the Scarecrow's speech -- then perfect pandemonium.

"No! No! You are a good Emperor! We will not let you go!" shrieked the
people. "You are our honorable little Father. The Prince shall be Emperor
after you have peacefully returned to your ancestors, but not now. No! No!
We will not have it!"

"I feared this!" quavered Happy Toko.

"It is not the Emperor, but the Scarecrow who speaks!" shrilled the Grand
Chew Chew craftily. "He knows not what he says. But after the
transformation -- Ah, you shall see!"

The company calmed down at this. "Let the ceremony proceed! Way for the
Grand Gheewizard!" they cried exultantly.

"Chew Chew," wailed the Scarecrow, "you're off the track!" But it was too
late. No one would listen.

"I'll have to think of something else," muttered the Scarecrow, sinking
dejectedly back on his throne.

"Oh!" shuddered Dorothy, clutching the Scarecrow, "Here he comes!"

"Way for the Grand Gheewizard! Way for the Grand Gheewizard!"

The crowd parted. Hobbling toward the throne came the ugly little Gheewizard
of the Silver Island holding a large silver vase high above his head, and
after him --!

When Sir Hokus caught a glimpse of what came after, he leaped clean over the
Comfortable Camel.

"Uds daggers!" roared the Knight. "At last!" He rushed forward violently.
There was a sharp thrust of his good sword, then an explosion like twenty
giant firecrackers in one, and the room became quite black with smoke. Before
anyone realized what had happened, Sir Hokus was back, dragging something
after him and shouting exuberantly, "A dragon! I have slain a dragon! What
happiness!"

Everyone was coughing and spluttering from the smoke, but as it cleared
Dorothy saw that it was indeed a dragon Sir Hokus had slain, the rheumatic
dragon of the old Gheewizard himself.

"Why didn't you get the wizard?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion angrily.

"Must have exploded," said the Comfortable Camel, sniffing the skin daintily.

"Treason!" yelled the three Princes, while the Grand Gheewizard flung
himself on the stone floor and began tearing strand after strand from his
silver pigtail.

"He has killed the little joy of my hearth!" screeched the old man. "I will
turn him to a cat, a miserable yellow cat, and roast him for dinner!"

"Oh!" cried Dorothy, looking at Sir Hokus sorrowfully. "How could you?"

The slaying of the dragon had thrown the whole hall into utmost confusion.
Sir Hokus turned a little pale under his armor, but faced the angry mob
without flinching.

"Oh, my dear Karwan Bashi, this is so uncomfortable!" wheezed the camel,
glancing back of him with frightened eyes.

"There's a shiny dagger in my left-hand saddlesack. I doubt very much
whether they would like it," coughed the Doubtful Dromedary, pressing close
to the Knight.

"On with the ceremony!" cried the eldest Prince, seeing that the excitement
was giving the Scarecrow's friends too much time to think. "The son of an
iron pot shall be punished later!"

"That's right!" cried a voice from the crowd. "Let the Emperor be restored!"

"I guess it's all over," gulped the Scarecrow. "Give my love to Ozma and tell
her I tried to come back."

In helpless terror, the little company watched the Gheewizard approach. One
could fight real enemies, but magic! Even Sir Hokus, brave as he was, felt
that nothing could be done.

"One move and you shall be so many prunes," shrilled the angry old man,
fixing the people from Oz with his wicked little eyes. The great room was
so still you could have heard a pin drop. Even the Doubtful Dromedary had
not the heart to doubt the wizard's power, but stood rigid as a statue.

The wizard advanced slowly, holding the sealed vase carefully over his head.
The poor Scarecrow regarded it with gloomy fascination. One more moment and
he would be an old, old Silverman. Better to be lost forever! He held
convulsively to Dorothy.

As for Dorothy herself, she was trembling with fright and grief. When the
Grand Gheewizard raised the vase higher and higher and made ready to hurl it
at the Scarecrow, disregarding his dire threat she gave a shrill scream and
threw up both hands.

"Great grandmothers!" gasped the Scarecrow, jumping to his feet. As Dorothy
had thrown up her arms, the little parasol swinging at her wrist had jerked
open. Up, up, up, and out through the broken skylight in the roof sailed
the little Princess of Oz!

The Grand Gheewizard, startled as anyone, failed to throw the vase. Every neck
was craned upward, and everyone was gasping with astonishment.

The oldest Prince, as usual, was the first to recover. "Don't stand staring
like an idiot! Now's your chance!" he hissed angrily in the Gheewizard's ear.

"I didn't come here to be harried and hurried by foreigners," sobbed the
little man. "How is one to work magic when interrupted every other minute?
I want my little dragon."

"Oh, come on now, just throw it. I'll get you another dragon," begged the
Prince, his hands trembling with excitement.

In the face of this new disaster, the Scarecrow had forgotten all about the
Gheewizard. He and the Cowardly Lion and Sir Hokus were running distractedly
around the great throne trying to think up a way to rescue Dorothy. As for the
Doubtful Dromedary, he was doubting everything in a loud, bitter voice, while
the Comfortable Camel fairly snorted with sorrow.

"There! Now's your chance," whispered the Prince. The Scarecrow, with his
back to the crowd, was gesturing frantically.

Taking a firm hold on the neck of the vase and with a long incantation which
there is no use at all in repeating, the Gheewizard flung the bottle straight
at the Scarecrow's head. But scarcely had it left his hand before there was a
flash and a flutter and down came Dorothy and the magic parasol right on top
of the vase.

Zip! The vase flew in quite another direction, and next minute had burst over
the luckless heads of the three plotting Princes, while Dorothy floated gently
to earth.

Sir Hokus embraced the Scarecrow, and the Scarecrow hugged the Cowardly
Lion, and I don't wonder at all. For no sooner had the magic elixir touched
the Princes, than two of them became silver pigs and the eldest a weasel.
They had been turned to their true shapes instead of the Scarecrow. And
while the company hopped about in alarm, they ran squealing from the hall
and disappeared in the gardens.

"Seize the Gheewizard and take him to his cave," ordered the Scarecrow,
asserting his authority for the first time since the proceedings has
started. He had noticed the old man making queer signs and passes toward
Sir Hokus. A dozen took hold of the struggling Gheewizard and hurried him
out of the hall.

Sir Hokus, at the request of the Scarecrow, clapped his iron gauntlets for
silence.

"You will agree with me, I'm sure," said the Scarecrow in a slightly unsteady
voice, "that magic is a serious matter to meddle with. If you will all return
quietly to your homes, I will try to find a way out of our difficulties."

The Silver Islanders listened respectfully and after a little arguing among
themselves backed out of the throne room. To tell the truth, they were
anxious to spread abroad the tale of the morning's happenings.

Princess Orange Blossom, however, refused to depart. Magic or no magic, she
had come to marry the Emperor, and she would not leave till the ceremony had
been performed.

"But my dear old Lady, would you wish to marry a Scarecrow?" coaxed the
Emperor.

"All men are Scarecrows," snapped the Princess sourly.

"Then why marry at all?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion, making a playful leap at
her palanquin. This was too much. The Princess swooned on the spot, and the
Scarecrow, taking advantage of her unconscious condition, ordered her chair
bearers to carry her away as far and as fast as they could run.

"Now," said the Scarecrow when the last of the company had disappeared, "let
us talk this over."



CHAPTER 21

THE ESCAPE FROM THE SILVER ISLAND


"Well!" gasped Dorothy, fanning herself with her hat, "I never was so
s'prised in my life!"

"Nor I," exclaimed the Scarecrow. "The Grand Gheewizard will be suing you
for parassault and battery. But how did it happen?"

"Well," began Dorothy, "as soon as the parasol opened, I flew up so fast
that I could hardly breathe. Then, after I'd gone ever so far, it came to
me that if the parasol went up when it was up, it would come down when it
was down. I couldn't leave you all in such a fix -- so I closed it, and --"

"Came down!" finished the Scarecrow with a wave of his hand. "You always do
the right thing in the right place, my dear."

"It was lucky I hit the vase, wasn't it?" sighed Dorothy. "But I'm rather
sorry about the Princes."

"Served 'em right," growled the Cowardly Lion. "They'll make very good pigs!"

"But who's to rule the island?" demanded Sir Hokus, turning his gaze
reluctantly from the smoking dragonskin.

"This will require thought," said the Scarecrow pensively. "Let us all think."

"I doubt that I can ever think again." The Doubtful Dromedary wagged his
head from side to side in a dazed fashion.

"Just leave it to our dear Karwan Bashi." The Comfortable Camel nodded
complacently at the Knight and began plucking sly wisps from the
Scarecrow's boot top. For a short time there was absolute silence.

Then Sir Hokus, who had been thinking tremendously with his elbows on his
knees, burst out, "Why not Sir Pudding, here? Why not this honest Punster?
Who but Happy Toko deserves the throne?"

"The very person!" cried the Scarecrow, clasping his yellow gloves, and
taking off his silver hat, he set it impulsively upon the head of the fat
little Silver Islander.

"He'll make a lovely Emperor," said Dorothy. "He's so kind-hearted and
jolly. And now the Scarecrow can abdicate and come home to Oz."

They all looked triumphantly at the Imperial Punster, but Happy Toko,
snatching off the royal hat, burst into tears.

"Don't leave me behind, amiable Master!" he sobbed disconsolately. "Oh, how
I shall miss you!"

"But don't you see," coaxed Dorothy, "the Scarecrow needs you here more than
anyplace, and think of all the fine clothes you will have and how rich you
will be!"

"And Tappy, my dear boy," said the Scarecrow, putting his arm around Happy
Toko, "you might not like Oz any more than I like Silver Island. Then think
-- if everything goes well, you can visit me -- just as one Emperor visits
another!"

"And you won't forget me?" sniffed Happy, beginning to like the idea of
being Emperor.

"Never!" cried the Scarecrow with an impressive wave.

"And if anything goes wrong, will you help me out?" questioned Happy
uncertainly.

"We'll look in the Magic Picture of Oz every month," declared Dorothy, "and
if you need us we'll surely find some way to help you."

"An' you ever require a trusty sword, Odds Bodikins!" exclaimed Sir Hokus,
pressing Tappy's hand, "I'm your man!"

"All right, dear Master!" Happy slowly picked up the Imperial hat and set it
sideways on his head. "I'll do my best."

"I don't doubt it at all," said the Doubtful Dromedary to everyone's
surprise.

"Three cheers for the Emperor! Long live the Emperor of the Silver Island,"
rumbled the Cowardly Lion, and everybody from Oz, even the camel and
dromedary, fell upon their knees before Happy Toko.

"You may have my bride, too, Tappy," chuckled the Scarecrow with a wink at
Dorothy. "And Tappy," he asked, sobering suddenly, "will you have my
grandsons brought up like real children? Just as soon as I return, I shall
send them all the Books of Oz."

Happy bowed, too confused and excited for speech.

"Now," said the Scarecrow, seizing Dorothy's hand, "I can return to Oz with
an easy mind."

"Doubt that," said the Doubtful Dromedary.

"You needn't!" announced Dorothy. "I've thought it all out." In a few short
sentences she outlined her plan.

"Bravo!" roared the Cowardly Lion, and now the little party began in real
earnest the preparation for the journey back to Oz.

First, Happy brought them a delicious luncheon, with plenty of twigs and hay
for the camel and dromedary and meat for the Cowardly Lion. The Scarecrow
packed into the camel's sacks a few little souvenirs for the people of Oz.
Then they dressed Happy Toko in the Scarecrow's most splendid robe and ordered
him to sit upon the throne. Next, the Scarecrow rang for one of the palace
servants and ordered the people of the Silver Islands to assemble in the hall.

Presently the Silvermen began to come trooping in, packing the great
throne room until it could hold no more. Everyone was chattering excitedly.

It was quite a different company that greeted them. The Scarecrow, cheerful
and witty in his old Munchkin suit, Dorothy and Sir Hokus smiling happily,
and the three animal members of the party fairly blinking with contentment.

"This," said the Scarecrow pleasantly when everyone was quiet, "is your new
Emperor, to whom I ask you to pledge allegiance." He waved proudly in the
direction of Happy Toko, who, to tell the truth, presented a truly royal
appearance. "It is not possible for me to remain with you, but I shall
always watch over this delightful island and with the magic fan vanquish
all its enemies and punish all offenders."

Happy Toko bowed to his subjects.

The Silver Islanders exchanged startled glances, then, as the Scarecrow
carelessly lifted the fan, they fell prostrate to the earth.

"Ah!" said the Scarecrow with a broad wink at Happy. "This is delightful. You
agree with me, I see. Now then, three cheers for Tappy Oko, Imperial Emperor
of the Silver Island."

The cheers were given with a will, and Happy in acknowledgement made a speech
that has since been written into the Royal Book of state as a masterpiece of
eloquence.

Having arranged affairs so satisfactorily, the Scarecrow embraced Happy Toko
with deep emotion. Dorothy and Sir Hokus shook hands with him and wished
him every success and happiness. Then the little party from Oz walked
deliberately to the bean pole in the center of the hall.

The Silver Islanders were still a bit dazed by the turn affairs had taken and
stared in astonishment as the Scarecrow and Sir Hokus fastened thick ropes
around the Cowardly Lion, the Doubtful Dromedary and the Comfortable Camel.
Similar ropes they tied around their own waists and Dorothy's, and the ends
of all were fastened securely to the handle of the magic parasol, which
Dorothy held carefully.

"Goodbye, everybody!" called the little girl, suddenly opening the parasol.

"Goodbye!" cried the genial Scarecrow, waving his hand.

Too stupefied for speech, the assemblage gaped with amazement as the party
floated gently upward. Up -- up -- and out of sight whirled the entire party.



CHAPTER 22

THE FLIGHT OF THE PARASOL


Holding the handle of the parasol, Dorothy steered it with all the skill of
an aviator, and in several minutes after their start the party had entered
the deep, black passage down which the Scarecrow had fallen. Each one of
the adventurers was fastened to the parasol with ropes of different length
so that none of them bumped together, but even with all the care in the
world it was not possible to keep them from bumping the sides of the tube.
The Comfortable Camel grunted plaintively from time to time, and Dorothy
could hear the Doubtful Dromedary complaining bitterly in the darkness. It
was pitch dark, but by keeping one hand in touch with the bean pole,
Dorothy managed to hold the parasol in the center.

"How long will it take?" she called breathlessly to the Scarecrow, who was
dangling just below.

"Hours!" wheezed the Scarecrow, holding fast to his hat. "I hope none of the
parties on this line hear us," he added nervously, thinking of the
Middlings.

"What recks it?" blustered Sir Hokus. "Hast forgotten my trusty sword?" But
his words were completely drowned in the rattle of his armor.

"Hush!" warned the Scarecrow, "Or we'll be pulled in." So for almost an hour,
they flew up the dark, chimney-like tube with only an occasional groan as one 
or another scraped against the rough sides of the passage. Then, before they 
knew what was happening, the parasol crashed into something, half closed, and 
the whole party started to fall head over heels over helmets.

"O!" gasped Dorothy, turning a complete somersault, "catch hold of the bean
pole, somebody!"

"Put up the parasol!" shrieked the Scarecrow. Just then Dorothy, finding
herself right side up, grasped the pole herself and snapped the parasol
wide open. Up, up, up they soared again, faster than ever!

"We're flying up much faster than I fell down. We must be at the top!"
called the Scarecrow hoarsely, "and somebody has closed the opening!"



CHAPTER 23

SAFE AT LAST IN THE LAND OF OZ


"Must we keep bumping until we bump through?" panted Dorothy anxiously.

"No, by my hilts!" roared Sir Hokus, and setting his foot in a notch of the
beanstalk, he cut with his sword the rope that bound him to the parasol.
"Put the parasol down half way, and I'll climb ahead and cut an opening."

With great difficulty Dorothy partially lowered the parasol, and instantly
their speed diminished. Indeed, they barely moved at all, and the Knight
had soon passed them on his climb to the top.

"Are you there?" rumbled the Cowardly Lion anxiously. A great clod of earth
landed on his head, filling his eyes and mouth with mud.

"Ugh!" roared the lion.

"It's getting light! It's getting light!" screamed Dorothy, and in her
excitement snapped the parasol up.

Sir Hokus, having cut with his sword a large circular hole in the thin crust
of earth covering the tube, was about to step out when the parasol, hurling up
from below, caught him neatly on its top, and out burst the whole party and
sailed up almost to the clouds!

"Welcome to Oz!" cried Dorothy, looking down happily on the dear familiar
Munchkin landscape.

"Home at last!" exulted the Scarecrow, wafting a kiss downward.

"Let's get down to earth before we knock the sun into a cocked hat," gasped
the Cowardly Lion, for Dorothy, in her excitement, had forgotten to lower
the parasol.

Now the little girl lowered the parasol carefully at first, then faster and
faster and finally shut it altogether.

Sir Hokus took a high dive from the top. Down tumbled the others, over and
over. But fortunately for all, there was a great haystack below, and upon
this they landed in a jumbled heap close to the magic bean pole. As it
happened, there was no one in sight. Up they jumped in a trice, and while
the Comfortable Camel and Doubtful Dromedary munched contentedly at the
hay, Sir Hokus and the Scarecrow placed some loose boards over the opening
around the bean pole and covered them with dirt and cornstalks.

"I will get Ozma to close it properly with the Magic Belt," said the
Scarecrow gravely. "It wouldn't do to have people sliding down my family
tree and scaring poor Tappy. As for me, I shall never leave Oz again!"

"I hope not," growled the Cowardly Lion, tenderly examining his scratched hide.

"But if you hadn't, I'd never have had such lovely adventures or found Sir
Hokus and the Comfortable Camel and Doubtful Dromedary," said Dorothy. "And
what a lot I have to tell Ozma! Let's go straight to the Emerald City."

"It's quite a journey," explained the Scarecrow to Sir Hokus, who was
cleaning off his armor with a handful of straw.

"I go where Lady Dot goes," replied the Knight, smiling affectionately at
the little girl and straightening the ragged hair ribbon which he still
wore on his arm.

"Don't forget me, dear Karwan Bashi," wheezed the Comfortable Camel, putting
his head on the Knight's shoulder.

"You're a sentimental dunce, Camy. I doubt whether they'll take us at all!"
The Doubtful Dromedary looked wistfully at Dorothy.

"Go to, now!" cried Sir Hokus, putting an arm around each neck. "You're just
like two of the family!"

"It will be very comfortable to go to now," sighed the camel.

"We're all a big, jolly family here," said the Scarecrow, smiling brightly,
"and Oz is the friendliest country in the world."

"Right," said the Cowardly Lion, "but let's get started!" He stretched his
tired muscles and began limping stiffly toward the yellow brick road.

"Wait," cried Dorothy, "have you forgotten the parasol?"

"I wish I could," groaned the Cowardly Lion, rolling his eyes.

Sir Hokus, with folded arms, was gazing regretfully at the bean pole. "It
has been a brave quest," he sighed, "but now, I take it, our adventures are
over!" Absently, the Knight felt in his boot-top and drawing out a small
red bean popped it into his mouth. Just before reaching the top of the
tube, he had pulled a handful of them from the beanstalk, but the others
had fallen out when he dove into the hay.

"Shall we use the parasol again, Lady Dot?" he asked, still staring pensively
at the bean pole. "Shall--?"

He got no farther, nor did Dorothy answer his question. Instead, she gave a
loud scream and clutched the Scarecrow's arm. The Scarecrow, taken by
surprise, fell over backward, and the Comfortable Camel, raising his head
inquiringly, gave a bellow of terror. From the Knight's shoulders a green
branch had sprung, and while the company gazed in round-eyed amazement it
stretched toward the bean pole, attached itself firmly, and then shot straight
up into the air, the Knight kicking and struggling on the end. In another
second, he was out of sight.

"Come back! Come back!" screamed the Comfortable Camel, running around
distractedly.

"I doubt we'll ever see him again!" groaned the Doubtful Dromedary, craning
his neck upward.

"Do something! Do something!" begged Dorothy. At which the Scarecrow jumped
up and dashed toward the little farmhouse.

"I'll get an ax," he called over his shoulder, "and chop down the bean pole."

"No, don't do that!" roared the Cowardly Lion, starting after him. "Do you
want to break him to pieces?"

"Oh! Oh! Can't you think of something else?" cried Dorothy. "And hurry, or
he'll be up to the moon!"

The Scarecrow put both hands to his head and stared around wildly. Then,
with a triumphant wave of his hat, declared himself ready to act.

"The parasol!" cried the late Emperor of Silver Island. "Quick, Dorothy, put
up the parasol!"

Snatching the parasol, which lay at the foot of the bean pole, Dorothy snapped
it open, and the Scarecrow just had time to make a flying leap and seize the
handle before it soared upward, and in a trice they, too, had disappeared.

"Doubty! Doubty!" wailed the Comfortable Camel, crowding up to his humpbacked
friend, "we're having a pack of trouble. My knees are all a-tremble!"

"Now don't you worry," advised the Cowardly Lion, sitting down resignedly.
"I'm frightened myself, but that's because I'm so cowardly. Queer things
happen in Oz, but they usually turn out all right. Why, Hokus is just
growing up with the country, that's all, just growing up with the country."

"Doubt that," sniffed the Doubtful Dromedary faintly. "He was grown up in
the beginning."

"But think of the Scarecrow's brains. You leave things to the Scarecrow."
But it was no use. Both beasts began to roar dismally.

"I don't want a plant. I want my Karwan Bashi," sobbed the Comfortable Camel
broken-heartedly.

"Well, don't drown me," begged the Cowardly Lion, moving out of the way of
the camel's tears. "Say, what's that draft?"

What indeed? In the trees overhead, a very cyclone whistled, and before the
three had even time to catch their breath, they were blown high into the
air and the next instant were hurtling toward the Emerald City like three
furry cannonballs, faster and faster.



CHAPTER 24

HOMEWARD BOUND TO THE EMERALD CITY


Dorothy and the Scarecrow, clinging fast to the magic parasol, had followed
the Knight almost to the clouds. At first, it looked as if they would never
catch up with him, so swiftly was the branch growing, but it was not long
before the little umbrella began to gain, and in several minutes more they
were beside Sir Hokus himself.

"Beshrew me, now!" gasped the Knight, stretching out his hand toward
Dorothy. "Can'st stop this reckless plant?"

"Give me your sword," commanded the Scarecrow, "and I'll cut you off."

Dorothy, with great difficulty, kept the parasol close to the Knight while
the Scarecrow reached for the sword. But Sir Hokus backed away in alarm. "

'Tis part of me, an' you cut it off, I will be cut off, too. 'Tis rooted in
my back," he puffed.

"What shall we do?" cried Dorothy in distress. "Maybe if we take hold of his
hands we can keep him from going any higher."

The Scarecrow, jamming down his hat so it wouldn't blow off, nodded
approvingly, and each holding the parasol with one hand gave the other to the
Knight. And when Dorothy pointed the parasol down, to her great delight Sir
Hokus came also, the thin green branch growing just about as fast as they
moved.

Just then the little fan, which had been rolling around merrily in Dorothy's
pocket, slipped out and fell straight down toward the three unsuspecting
beasts below. Draft! No wonder!

But Dorothy never missed it, and quite unconscious of such a calamity
anxiously talked over the Knight's predicament with the Scarecrow. They both
decided that the best plan was to fly straight to the Emerald City and have
Ozma release the Knight from the enchanted beanstalk.

"I'm sorry you got tangled up in my family tree, old fellow," said the
Scarecrow after they had flown some time in silence, "but this makes us
relations, doesn't it?" He winked broadly at the Knight.

"So it does," said Sir Hokus jovially. "I'm a branch of your family now. Yet
methinks I should not have swallowed that bean."

"Bean?" questioned Dorothy. "What bean?" The Knight carefully explained how
he had plucked a handful of red beans from the beanstalk just before
reaching the top of the tube and how he had eaten one.

"So that's what started you growing!" exclaimed Dorothy in surprise.

"Alas, yes!" admitted the Knight. "I've never felt more grown-up in my
life," he finished solemnly. "An adventurous country, this Oz!"

"I should say it was," chuckled the Scarecrow. "But isn't it almost time we
were reaching the Emerald City, Dorothy?"

"I think I'm going in the right direction," answered the little girl, "but
I'll fly a little lower to be sure."

"Not too fast! Not too fast!" warned Sir Hokus, looking nervously over his
shoulder at his long, wriggling stem.

"There's Ozma's palace!" cried the Scarecrow all at once.

"And there's Ozma!" screamed Dorothy, peering down delightedly. "And Scraps
and Tik-Tok and everybody!"

She pointed the parasol straight down, when a sharp tug from Sir Hokus jerked
them all back. They were going faster than the poor Knight was growing, so
Dorothy lowered the parasol half way, and slowly they floated toward the
earth, landing gently in one of the flower beds of Ozma's lovely garden.

"Come along and meet the folks," said the Scarecrow as Dorothy closed the
parasol. But Sir Hokus clutched him in alarm.

"Hold! Hold!" gasped the Knight. "I've stopped growing, but if you leave me
I'll shoot up into the air again."

The Scarecrow and Dorothy looked at each other in dismay. Sure enough, the
Knight had stopped growing, and it was all they could do to hold him down to
earth, for the stubborn branch of beanstalk was trying to straighten up. They
had fallen quite a distance from the palace itself, and all the people of Oz
had their backs turned, so had not seen their singular arrival.

"Hello!" called the Scarecrow loudly. Then "Help! Help!" as the Knight
jerked him twice into the air. But Ozma, Trot, Jack Pumpkinhead and all the
rest were staring upward and talking so busily among themselves that they
did not hear either Dorothy's or the Scarecrow's cries. First one, then the
other was snatched off his feet, and although Sir Hokus, with tears in his
eyes, begged them to leave him to his fate, they held on with all their
might. Just as it looked as if they all three would fly into the air again,
the little Wizard of Oz happened to turn around.

"Look! Look!" he cried, tugging Ozma's sleeve.

"Why, it's Dorothy!" gasped Ozma, rubbing her eyes. "It's Dorothy and --"

"Help! Help!" screamed the Scarecrow, waving one arm wildly. Without waiting
another second, all the celebrities of Oz came running toward the three
adventurers.

"Somebody heavy come take hold!" puffed Dorothy, out of breath with her
efforts to keep Sir Hokus on the ground.

The Ozites, seeing that help was needed at once, suppressed their curiosity.

"I'm heavy," said Tik-Tok solemnly, clasping the Knight's arm. The Tin Woodman
seized his other hand, and Dorothy sank down exhausted on the grass.

Princess Ozma pressed forward.

"What does it all mean? Where did you come from?" asked the little Queen of
Oz, staring in amazement at the strange spectacle before her.

"And who is this medieval person?" asked Professor Wogglebug, pushing
forward importantly. (He had returned to the palace to collect more data
for the Royal Book of Oz.)

"He doesn't look evil to me," giggled Scraps, dancing up to Sir Hokus, her
suspender button eyes snapping with fun.

"He isn't," said Dorothy indignantly, for Sir Hokus was too shaken about to
answer. "He's my Knight Errant."

"Ah, I see," replied Professor Wogglebug. "A case of 'When Knighthood was in
flower.'" And would you believe it -- the beanstalk at that minute burst into
a perfect shower of red blossoms that came tumbling down over everyone. Before
they had recovered from their surprise, the branch snapped off close to the
Knight's armor, and Tik-Tok, the Tin Woodman and Sir Hokus rolled over in a
heap. The branch itself whistled through the air and disappeared.

"Oh," cried Dorothy, hugging the Knight impulsively, "I'm so glad."

"Are you all right?" asked the Scarecrow anxiously.

"Good as ever!" announced Sir Hokus, and indeed all traces of the magic
stalk had disappeared from his shoulders.

"Dorothy!" cried Ozma again. "What does it all mean?"

"Merely that I slid down my family tree and that Dorothy and this Knight
rescued me," said the Scarecrow calmly.

"And he's a real Royalty -- so there!" cried Dorothy with a wave at the
Scarecrow and making a little face at Professor Wogglebug. "Meet his
Supreme Highness, Chang Wang Woe of Silver Island, who had abdicated his
throne and returned to be a plain Scarecrow in Oz!"

Then, as the eminent Educator of Oz stood gaping at the Scarecrow, "Oh, Ozma,
I've so much to tell you!"

"Begin! Begin!" cried the little Wizard. "For everything's mighty
mysterious. First, the Cowardly Lion and two unknown beasts shoot through
the air and stop just outside the third-story windows, and there they hang
although I've tried all my magic to get them down. Then you and the
Scarecrow drop in with a strange Knight!"

"Oh, the poor Cowardly Lion!" gasped Dorothy as the Wizard finished
speaking. "The magic fan!" She felt hurriedly in her pocket. "It's gone!"

"It must have slipped out of your pocket and blown them here, and they'll
never come down till that fan is closed," cried the Scarecrow in an
agitated voice.

All of this was Greek to Ozma and the others, but when Dorothy begged the
little Queen to send for her Magic Belt, she did it without question. This
belt Dorothy had captured from the Gnome King, and it enabled the wearer to
wish people and objects wherever one wanted them.

"I wish the magic fan to close and to come safely back to me," said Dorothy
as soon as she had clasped the belt around her waist. No sooner were the
words out before there was a loud crash and a series of roars and groans.
Everybody started on a run for the palace, Sir Hokus ahead of all the rest.
The fan had mysteriously returned to Dorothy's pocket.

The three animals had fallen into a huge cluster of rose bushes and, though
badly scratched and frightened, were really unhurt.

"I doubt that I'll like Oz," quavered the Doubtful Dromedary, lurching toward
Sir Hokus.

"You might have been more careful of that fan," growled the Cowardly Lion
reproachfully, plucking thorns from his hide. The Comfortable Camel was so
overjoyed to see the Knight that he rested his head on Sir Hokus's shoulder
and began weeping down his armor.

And now that their adventures seemed really over, what explanations were to
be made! Sitting on the top step of the palace with all of them around her,
Dorothy told the whole wonderful story of the Scarecrow's family tree. When
her breath gave out, the Scarecrow took up the tale himself, and as they
all realized how nearly they had lost their jolly comrade, many of the
party shed real tears. Indeed, Nick Chopper hugged the Scarecrow till there
was not a whole straw in his body.

"Never leave us again," begged Ozma, and the Scarecrow, crossing Nick
Chopper's heart (he had none of his own), promised that he never would.

And what a welcome they gave Sir Hokus, the Doubtful Dromedary and the
Comfortable Camel! Only Professor Wogglebug seemed disturbed. During the
strange recital, he had grown quieter and quieter and finally, with an
embarrassed cough, had excused himself and hurried into the palace.

He went directly to the study, and seating himself at a desk opened a large
book, none other than The Royal Book of Oz. Dipping an emerald pen in the
ink, he began a new chapter headed thus:

    HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY, THE SCARECROW

  Late Emperor and Imperial Sovereign of
              Silver Island

Then, flipping over several pages to a chapter headed "Princess Dorothy!", he
wrote carefully at the end, "Dorothy, Princess and Royal Discoverer of Oz."

Meanwhile, below stairs, the Scarecrow was distributing his gifts. There
were silver chains for everyone in the palace and shining silver slippers
for Ozma, Betsy Bobbin, Trot and Dorothy, and a bottle of silver polish for
Nick Chopper.

Dorothy presented Ozma with the magic fan and parasol, and they were safely
put away by Jellia Jamb with the other magic treasures of Oz.

Next, because they were all curious to see the Scarecrow's wonderful
Kingdom, they hurried upstairs to look in the Magic Picture.

"Show us the Emperor of Silver Island," commanded Ozma. Immediately the
beautiful silver throne room appeared. Happy Toko had removed his imperial hat
and was standing on his head to the great delight of the whole court, and a
host of little Silver Islander boys were peeking in at the windows.

"Now doesn't that look cheerful?" asked the Scarecrow delightedly. "I knew
he'd make a good Emperor."

"I wish we would hear what he's saying," said Dorothy. "Oh, do look at Chew
Chew!" The Grand Chew Chew was standing beside the throne scowling horribly.

"I think I can arrange for you to hear," muttered the Wizard of Oz, and
taking a queer magic instrument from his pocket, he whispered "Aohbeeobbuy."

Instantly they heard the jolly voice of Happy Toko singing:

    Oh shine his shoes of silver,
    And brush his silver queue,
    For I am but an Emperor
    And he's the Grand Chew Chew!

Ozma laughed heartily as the picture faded away, and so did the others.
Indeed, there was so much to ask and wonder about that it seemed as if they
never would finish talking.

"Let's have a party -- an old-fashioned Oz party," proposed Ozma when the
excitement had calmed down a bit. And an old-fashioned party it was, with
places for everybody and a special table for the Cowardly Lion, the Hungry
Tiger, Toto, the Glass Cat, the Comfortable Camel, the Doubtful Drome-dary
and all the other dear creatures of that amazing Kingdom.

Sir Hokus insisted upon stirring up a huge pasty for the occasion, and there
were songs, speeches and cheers for everyone, not forgetting the Doubtful
Dromedary.

At the cheering he rose with an embarrassed jerk of his long neck. "In my
left-hand saddle-sack," he said gruffly, "there is a quantity of silken
shawls and jewels. I doubt whether they are good enough, but I would like
Dorothy and Queen Ozma to have them."

"Hear! Hear!" cried the Scarecrow, pounding on the table with his knife.
Then everything grew quiet as Ozma told how she, with the help of Glinda,
the Good Sorceress, had stopped the war between the Horners and Hoppers.

When she had finished, Sir Hokus sprang up impulsively. "I prithee, lovely
Lady, never trouble your royal head about wars again. From now on, I will
do battle for you and little Dorothy and Oz, and I will be your good
Knight every day." At this, the applause was tremendous.

    Ye good Knight of Oz, full of courage and vim,
    Will do battle for us, and we'll take care of him!

shouted Scraps, who was becoming more excited every minute.

"I'll lend you some of my polish for your armor, old fellow," said Nick
Chopper as the Knight sat down, beaming with pleasure.

"Well," said Ozma with a smile when everyone had feasted and talked to
heart's content, "is everybody happy?"

"I am!" cried the Comfortable Camel. "For here I am perfectly comfortable."

"I am!" cried Dorothy, putting her arm around the Scarecrow, who sat next to
her. "For I have found my old friend and made some new ones."

"I'm happy!" cried the Scarecrow, waving his glass, "because there is no age
in Oz, and I am still my old Ozish self."

"As for me," said the Knight, "I am happy, for I have served a Lady, gone on
a Quest, and Slain a Dragon! Ozma, and Oz forever!



A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook

Title:      The Betty Book (1937)
Author:     Stewart Edward White
eBook No.:  0301111.txt
Edition:    1
Language:   English
Character set encoding:     Latin-1(ISO-8859-1)--8 bit
Date first posted:          August 2003
Date most recently updated: August 2003

Project Gutenberg of Australia eBooks are created from printed editions
which are in the public domain in Australia, unless a copyright notice
is included. We do NOT keep any eBooks in compliance with a particular
paper edition.

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing this
or any other Project Gutenberg file.

To contact Project Gutenberg of Australia go to http://gutenberg.net.au
Further information on contacting Project Gutenberg, the
"legal small print" and other information about this eBook may be found
at the end of this file.

** Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Books **
** eBooks Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971 **
***** These eBooks Are Prepared By Thousands of Volunteers! *****

-----------------------------------------------------------------

A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook

Title:      The Betty Book (1937)
Author:     Stewart Edward White




Excursions into the World of Other-Consciousness
Made by Betty between 1919 and 1936
Now recorded by Stewart Edward White




INTRODUCTION

While considering the most effective introduction to the material
comprised in this book, I submitted the puzzle to a friend whose judgment
I value. His letter so fittingly and completely answered my problem that
I feel I can do no better than to set it down here.

"I should begin, in effect, somewhat as follows": he wrote me. "This book
is the record, condensed, of the excursions of 'Betty,' a psychic
intimately known to me and of absolute integrity, into the world of
'other-consciousness' and of communications received by her from forces
which I have ventured to call 'the invisibles'. These excursions, made in
a condition of trance or otherwise, began in the year 1919 and have
continued ever since. They are recorded in the following pages with no
idea of adding to the existing literature of automatic writing and
kindred phenomena; but in the belief that, as embodying a workable
philosophy of life, they may be of aid to seekers after spiritual light."

THE AUTHOR





CONTENTS



INTRODUCTION


PART I
INTRODUCTORY

Chap. 1.  DE-OCCULTIZATION Page 11
Chap. 2.  PERSONAL EXPERIENCE Page 14
Chap. 3.  THE DEVELOPMENT OF BETTY Page 22
Chap. 4.  PROPORTION Page 32
Chap. 5.  ELEMENTARY STEPS Page 44
Chap. 6.  LATER DEVELOPMENT Page 52
Chap. 7.  PERSONAL EXPERIENCE AGAIN Page 59
Chap. 8.  ELIMINATION Page 71
Chap. 9.  THE SUBSTANCE OF THOUGHT Page 78
Chap. 10. THE TECHNIQUE OF ELIMINATION Page 87
Chap. 11. DO IT NOW! Page 93
Chap. 12. THE SPIRITUAL BODY Page 102
Chap. 13. THE SPIRITUAL REALM Page 108
Chap. 14. PERCEPTION Page 119
Chap. 15. IMPETUS Page 129
Chap. 16. CONSTRUCTIVE PRAYER Page 133
Chap. 17. SUMMARY Page 140


PART II
OUR RELATIONS WITH THE WORLD WITHOUT

Chap. 18. LEVELS Page 147
Chap. 19. ASSIMILATION Page 151
Chap. 20. PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY Page 161
Chap. 21. SUMMARY Page 172
Chap. 22. SPIRITUAL CIRCULATION Page 173
Chap. 23. THE RETURN FLOW Page 178
Chap. 24. THE CHANNEL BACK Page 185
Chap. 25. INSULATION Page 193
Chap. 26. SYMPATHY Page 199
Chap. 27. MEETING NON-RECEPTIVITY Page 204
Chap. 28. CONFLICT Page 211


PART III
APPENDICES

Appen. 1. THE TECHNIQUE OF COMMUNICATION Page 221
Appen. 2. EXPERIMENTS WITH THE SPIRITUAL BODY Page 243





PART I




INTRODUCTORY



CHAPTER I


De-Occultization


The history of all progress in knowledge is a "de-occultization." Fully
half of the things we do daily as a matter of course would, even as
recently as two centuries ago, have been considered magic, without
explanation except as the product of occult forces and knowledge. The

continuity of history is unbroken in that respect. If we should learn
anything at all from the past, that one thing should stand out for us as
invariable. The superstition of the past is the science of the present,
the proverb of the future. The order of events is always the same. First
a few people observed or did things which were denied or denounced
vehemently by the old school as crazy or maleficent or supernatural.
Exact knowledge overtook these things and found them to be harmonious
examples of natural law.

The uses of humanity absorbed them and they became commonplaces of
existence, thoroughly de-occultized, adopted into the body of usual
mental life. This has happened over and over and over again with
unvarying regularity. One of the most fascinating of scientific byplays
is to backtrack through history picking up at random marvels and
miracles, stripping them of warping legend, and explaining them in the
light of what we now know. They became not the less marvels and miracles,
if you please, but de-occultized. It should be added that all cannot be
so explained. The unsolved residue is not the more-or less-improbable for
that. Perhaps our grandchildren's progress will show this unexplained
residue as simple as we have found some of the miracles that dumfounded
our ancestors.

There are two things that this history of de-occultization, as I have
called it, has taught us. One is, the extraordinary initial opposition
that always meets the process. A combination of man's conservatism,
dislike of being jarred loose once he has settled down to his
satisfaction, a greater dislike of being proved mistaken, an intellectual
pride in his achievements so far, and a rooted suspicion of the one who
walks apart, have all contributed to this attitude. The principle of the
telescope is so much a commonplace of today that the very children catch
and accept the idea; yet Galileo was branded as a madman, imprisoned, and
only just escaped martyrdom. So certain were the scientists of his time
of their reasoning according to "immutable physical law," that they
refused to look through the telescope! They knew already what they would
see! Joseph Thompson reported a mountain with snow under the equator, and
died of a broken heart under the weight of scientific ridicule heaped
upon him. Science PROVED by the "immutable law of physics"-as then
understood-that, no matter what the altitude, snow could not exist at
such a latitude: only it does! Darwin was fought with savage ferocity.
Langley was laughed to death. Why the bitterness? If these things, and
all the others were not so, why rend and tear in attacking them? Answer
that as you will, it is the history of progress; just as de-occultization
is the invariable result.

The other thing which this history has taught us is the very human
tendency to ascribe the unexplained to "spirits." And again we may well
ask, why? Just because a table moves, or a strange light shows, or a
pencil writes under our hand, surely there is no need of invoking the
ghostly or the supernatural. These are facts, perhaps, and some of them
may be due to the activities of spirits, for all we know. But if so, we
can rest completely assured that they will eventually be found working
along the lines of natural law, and not by means of the supernatural, in
the literal meaning of that word.

In the meantime, even if some of these things are the results of spirit
activity-as they may or may not be-we need not treat them as either
spooky or sacred. After all, they are just natural phenomena, and some
day they will be de-occultized, like all the rest. Then all at once they
will seem as normal and commonplace as well, as radio.




CHAPTER II



Personal Experience


1.

The significance of this book is going to be its content. On the value of
that it will stand or fall, both as a claim to interest and as a
practical primer of spiritual hygiene. From that point of view it does
not matter how it was produced, or what its origin.

But from another point of view it must present its credentials. Most of
its teachings will be found, I think, acceptable by ordinary common
sense; but occasionally certain things are stated on authority. What is
the nature of that authority, and why do we feel that we may credit it?


2.

In the early nineteen-twenties a great many popular "psychic" books were
published. A number of them had real value. A regrettable majority were
more or less feeble and undigested accounts of alleged personal
"communications." These evidenced an extraordinary credulity on the one
side, and an equally extraordinary ineptitude on the other,-providing one
accepted their major premise of origin. Most of them began with a ouija
board.

The procedure was almost standard. Two people-or a group-fooling with the
thing as a lark or out of curiosity. It moves. It becomes coherent. It
spells out "messages."

That was the start, the "take-off." What happened after that depended on
the people involved. The subsequent proceedings ranged from the
"communications" of pure spiritualism to speculative philosophy. Nine in
ten of them were spoiled for any serious consideration by what might be
called the awed approach that inhibited any commonsense editorial
appraisal. This was a pity. After a time even those especially interested
in such things became inclined to shy off from "another ouija board
book." Nevertheless, I am inclined to believe that the ouija board may
take honorable place with Sir Isaac Newton's apple, Watt's teakettle,
Benjamin Franklin's kite and other historic playthings which have led to
many great results.

This is such a book. It too started with a ouija board, but it does not
linger on that phase. The first experience with it followed standard
lines. It would not be worth telling had it not an integral connection
with Betty's coming into the picture.


3.

In any research work it is always important to know the equipment of the
experimenter. Before March 17, 1919, my own "occult" background might, I
suppose, have been called average for a man who had lived an active life.
That is to say, I had paid such matters very little attention; and had
formed no considered opinions on them one way or another. By way of
unconsidered opinion I suppose I would, if called upon to express myself,
have taken my stand on the side of scepticism. This was because, like the
average man, I referred all "occult" or "psychic" matters to
spiritualism; which is also the savage's method. And spiritualism meant
to me either hysteria or clever conjuring or a blend of both. I knew that
it had been "exposed."

The literature on the subject was totally unknown to me, except for
Hudson's LAW OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA, which I had read in college
twenty-five years before. A few "queer" things had happened to me, as to
most. I had had some experience with such phenomena as the swift
transmission of news by savages across wide wastes of sparsely inhabited
country. These incidents, and especially this transmission of news, I had
been unable to explain by any theory that covered the whole
circumstances. But I did not try very hard to explain. I was too busy.
Such things did not especially concern me. I did not have to explain
them; any more than I had to insist on a detailed understanding of a
trolley car before I would ride in it, or a chemical analysis of a cloud
of saffron smoke just because I happened by and saw it. Nothing had
happened really to catch my interest.


4.

As with numerous others, our interest in the ouija board began quite
casually. On the date I have mentioned, some friends called on us
bringing one of these with them. They had bought it as a toy, to try Out,
without belief that anything in particular would happen to it. Somebody
suggested that the heart-shaped indicator was a clumsy affair, so we
substituted a small whiskey glass, upside down.

The occasion was derisive and gay,-and pretty muddled. It did not impress
me much, but I agreed to try my turn provided my opposite would agree not
to fake.

The little glass moved, and without the slightest conscious volition on
my part. That much I could determine. How far unconscious muscular action
went, I could not for the moment decide. After a time whenever the glass
moved away from me I let my fingers go limp and allowed the mechanism to
pull them after it. It did so; and once or twice dragged the glass from
under them. This was interesting. The force that moved that glass away
from me was either an outside force, or my VIS-A-VIS. It certainly was
not myself.

Here was a peculiar unanalyzable movement of an inanimate object beneath
our fingers. The fact that it spelled out simple sentences of whose
purport we none of us had any conscious inkling was an entirely secondary
consideration. For my part my main attention was concentrated on the feel
of the thing under my fingers. It had, it seemed to me, a peculiar thrill
of vitality; but I fully acknowledged to myself that such an effect might
well have been imaginative, following a strained attention. It also
seemed to me that its movements preceded rather than followed even the
slight unconscious muscular pressures; but that too could not be certain.

I am setting down thus minutely the details, not because they were
unusual--for I suspect them of being about the average--nor because of
any serious experimental value, but merely to convey a sense of
background of what later developed, and to indicate our own mental
attitude.

The "messages," as I say, did not seem to me of any importance whatever;
and for their origin I did not search beyond Hudson's SUBCONSCIOUS. A few
of them were pertinent and sensible enough, provided we were willing to
admit the claim of outside intelligences; but they contributed nothing
toward probability of these intelligences, let alone proof. There was not
a scrap of "evidential." But once, in the middle of our laughter and
buffooning, the glass moved with a sharp quick decision as though
impatient, in striking contrast to its customary fumbling.

"Why do you ask foolish questions?" it spelled.

Those sitting at the board denied having anything to do with this: it was
too apropos! Nevertheless we suspected them, and they suspected each
other.

Next our attention was caught by the repeated spelling out of the name
Betty. Now there was present a young woman nicknamed Betty. She was
standing in front of the fireplace after a very brief trial at the
board-and a somewhat scornful trial at that. We insisted that she was
being paged and that she must try again. She was reluctant, thinking this
merely an attempt of those sitting to lure her back into the game, but
finally yielded and took her place.

Immediately her fingers touched the glass it began to move in circles.
Around and around it went, faster and faster until she and her partner
could hardly keep their fingers on it. So comically like a dog frisking
in delight was it that we all burst into laughter.

"It's glad to get Betty," said we.

If any of us expected great things because it had what it wanted, we were
disappointed. Under her fingers the glass moved with a little more
precision, but the so-called "messages" were much the same, the usual
ouija experience of what might or might not be our own unconscious
action: a jumble of unintelligences, a few trivial messages purporting to
come from deceased relatives and friends. However, just as the word
"Betty" had recurred before, now an interpolated sentence was repeated
from time to time, without relevance.

"Get a pencil," it spelled, "Get a pencil," insistently, over and over.

Betty had heard that there was such a thing as automatic writing, though
she had no knowledge of it beyond the mere fact of its existence. Some
days later, privately, she did "get a pencil," and sat with it poised on
a sheet of paper, her hand resting inert and her mental activity reduced
to a mere question mark. The pencil began to move just as the whiskey
glass had moved on the ouija board. After some hesitation she came to me
about it, probably encouraged by my more analytical interest in the other
evening's foolery.

The pencil moved very slowly, and it wrote curiously formed script,
without capitals or punctuation, or even spacings, like one long
continuous word. It was necessary to go over it painstakingly, dividing
the words by vertical marks-when we had determined them. Sometimes we
interlined more plainly, in our own hand, what we made them out to be.
The result made sense.

Betty assured me that she had, consciously, nothing to do with moving the
pencil. Furthermore, she said that she did not know the sense of what had
been written until we had puzzled it out. As I knew Betty's complete
honesty I believed her.

Now here was a new phase of interest added to the first. Here also,
apparently, was manipulation by force outside of consciousness.
Furthermore, it was a reliable field of experiment. Nobody could be
certain of the bona fides of a mixed lot of people out for a good time,
but I was absolutely certain of Betty. There was no question as to one
thing: that her hand was seized and used; and that the seizing and using
was not of her conscious brain.

We agreed on a number of things besides this. The seizing and using was
by a force outside her own consciousness;* no question of that. The force
might be directed by her subconscious. Or it might be by some outside
intelligence. That was what purported. It would be silly to adopt such a
theory merely because of that claim. It would be equally silly to reject
it without further experiment. It would be worse than silly to shy off
from the whole subject merely because it was "uncanny" or "unnatural."

* Not necessarily outside her own SELF, of course.

Similarly as to the content of the writing. It might well be Betty's own.
Or it might, as it purported, come from outside. How could we tell unless
we gave it a chance? An arbitrary refusal seemed to us just as
"superstitious" as a blind acceptance. Furthermore we could neither of us
see how we could come to any harm, mental or otherwise, by such an
examination, provided we kept our feet on the ground.

"Let's give it a sporting chance," said Betty, "Let's give 'them' a
chance to say what 'they' want to without cross-examining like shyster
lawyers."




CHAPTER III


The Development of Betty


1.

We worked, then, together at frequent intervals: I as the recorder and
observer, Betty as the "station." The writing itself became easier. After
a time the words were divided one from the other. Betty blindfolded her
eyes, or looked away from the paper so that she might separate herself as
far as possible from what was to come next. I tried to keep close watch
of her attitude and reactions; with the resolve to call the whole thing
off if, physically or mentally, this experiment seemed to affect her
undesirably.

"We must keep open minded," I warned her, "not only about the thing
itself, but also about its effects. If at any time it seems to tire you
or to affect your health or nerves, or make you fuzzy-minded, or any of
the things everybody is always warning about, we'll drop it. And we'll
quit cold if what it seems to lead to gets visionary, or doesn't keep
human, or tries to take us off our jobs in any way."

We had, as I see it, one commanding advantage over average experience. We
neither of us approached all this from an emotional angle. Most people
do. The customary lure is that of hoped-for communication with the dead.
We had no such desire. We had suffered no recent bereavements. Our
interest was of exploration. We wanted to find out, if we could, what it
was all about-and why.

Up to this time the phenomenon itself had held our interest, but now the
content as well began to attract our attention. I had heard and
subscribed to the thoughtless statement that "spirits" never uttered
anything of sense or consequence. The product of this first automatic
writing, while often fragmentary, often difficult, often groping, was
never silly; and even in its incoherence it seemed to hold fast to a few
central ideas. And these ideas were sensible.

For instance, there was a steadfast refusal to give advice or opinion on
matters of our everyday lives. The argument seemed to be that everyday
life is a series of opportunities for making decisions; that those
decisions form character; that making another man's decisions for him
deprives him unwarrantedly of opportunity. That looked to us like sound
common sense.

Another bit of common sense-or at least it seemed common sense to me-was
the direct statement that the object was not primarily the development of
"psychic" power in Betty. That was to be of secondary importance. The
main objective was, first, the development of an easier and surer method
of communication; and, second, an expansion of her consciousness to a
capacity of understanding things to be communicated.

That was a program to enlist any one's intelligent interest. It was worth
the formulation of what, in scientific procedure, is known as a
provisional hypothesis, and its adoption "without prejudice," as the
lawyers have it. The provisional hypothesis must be the existence of
invisible intelligences. Their actuality must await, for belief, on the
outcome.


2.

The automatic writing continued for several months, improving steadily in
facility and coherence. Fresh material was supplemented each day by a
brief review of principles. This, we were told, was to facilitate their
absorption into our mental structure. Also certain simple exercises in
bodily, mental and spiritual control were prescribed. In September we
were told that soon the writing would cease. It did so.

Shortly afterward I was called away on a business trip. During this
absence I happened to read a book entitled OUR UNSEEN GUEST, and on my
return I suggested trying the method used by its authors. Accordingly
Betty lay with bandaged eyes, and I placed my fingers on her wrist.

At once she slipped easily into a kind of freed or double consciousness.
From it she reported various experiences. Her speech was at first halting
and stumbling, her phrases fragmentary, as though she were having great
difficulty. Apparently this was due to the necessity for running two
consciousnesses at once. The normal, from which she spoke, was
subordinate, it seemed; her real awareness being centered in a deeper
consciousness, from which she reported back.

For a long time that difficulty was so great as almost to obscure
coherence. It seemed to me that the automatic writing had been much
better. Why abandon it just when it was getting good? But we followed on,
as we had agreed between ourselves that we would, and by keeping at it,
in due time-just as had the automatic writing-it justified itself .

The idea seemed to be that Betty was to be brought in touch, through the
superconsciousness, with realities which she absorbed direct; and with
ideas conveyed sometimes in words heard with the "inner ear," sometimes
by mental impression. These things she transferred down to her habitual
consciousness, which then reported them to me.

She constantly complained of the dilution caused by this transfer. What
reached the paper was, according to her, but an unsatisfactory pale
shadow of the actuality.


3.

Possibly the handicap of this difficulty was also felt by these
Invisibles. Along in February,-nearly a year after the beginnings with
the ouija board-they began to experiment with a third technique.

Betty's voice quite altered in quality and timbre. Her phraseology, too,
changed. Some third personality purported to be speaking directly through
her.

Progress was exasperatingly slow. After long struggle a single word,
sometimes a single syllable, would be explosively enunciated. Often an
hour would be consumed in the delivery of a few short sentences. But, as
in the other two phases, facility did follow a long patience.

That, in brief, is the story of Betty's training in technique. In the
appendix will be found what we have been told, and what we have guessed,
of the way it operates.

At present there is often considerable fluency, so that I have trouble
keeping up with the transcription; on other occasions there seems to be
difficulty. Sometimes the direct voice speaks, at others Betty herself
reports word by word as though taking dictation, and again she describes
her impressions and experiences in her own way. Sometimes if difficulty
arises all three methods are tried.

I might add as an interesting small item that often, when I make a
mistake in writing down a word I have mis-heard, I am instantly
corrected, although Betty herself is lying below the level of the writing
table, on the side opposite my pencil hand, and with her eyes
blindfolded. "Attitude of mind" I once wrote down, and was instantly
stopped in mid-sentence. "No, no!" interrupted Betty, "ALTITUDE of mind."

Of course we realized that the choice of these methods probably depended
on what was to be got over. Yet we must have some curiosity as to why the
elaborate pains and patience?

"What we want is, not merely facility, but a trained intelligent
co-operation," they told us in effect, "Only thus can we command
invariable reliability."

Nevertheless, we argued, others have succeeded at this sort of thing
without such training. We instanced several examples. They agreed.

"But attested phenomena of a spontaneous or sporadic character," said
they, "are produced, or made possible at all, by a condition of extreme
flexibility. The flexibility, and utility, of unconsciousness is soon
lost. It is difficult to stress this sufficiently. Plasticity and
pliability are essential, splicing both the higher and lower
consciousnesses. Rigidity permits no impress. Therefore, one of two
things is necessary; either unconscious* manipulation, or trained
intelligent co-operation. Between the two lie all the failures."

* i.e., invisible manipulation of a totally unconscious station.

This was satisfactory as a general proposition.

So there we were, apparently ready to set sail. We had begun to
understand what was meant by "intelligent cooperation." Betty was to be
fitted for an introduction into the realities of another
consciousness,-that of these invisible intelligences. She was to go to
them, instead of their coming to her. It was described as a "lessening of
density," a "change of specific gravity." The matter was more complicated
than that, but the statement expresses the gist of it. Basic concepts
were to be added to hers, new perceptions were to be developed. In a
word, her equipment was to be expanded. And as intelligent co-operation
presupposes participation, her consciousness was not taken from her in
the customary deep trance. That does not mean she remained conscious as
you and I are conscious. She was unaware of her physical
surroundings,--she went "somewhere else." But in that somewhere else she
retained her faculties of thought. She was not put out, drugged, put
asleep. She was transferred.

Even in what we have called direct communication she was merely placed
one side. She expressed this in various ways, "I must not listen": "I
must carry this across without looking at it." Occasionally, but rarely
and only for certain exact accuracies, she goes so "far away"-as it seems
to her-that apparently there remains to her only a shred of
consciousness. But that shred is always there, and through it the
approach to "intelligent co-operation" is always possible.


4.

By this time our original interest in the mere mechanics of the thing had
given way to an increasing respect for the teaching itself. It was
forward moving and logical. It was systematic. It possessed a depth of
kindly wisdom. Above all its suitability to our own needs was uncannily
accurate. In general it was clear and consistent. Occasionally, to be
sure, some of the fragments of indirect approach to a large subject were
vague to us for a time; but always we found that, sooner or later, they
fitted together. Gradually we came to have confidence that this would
come about whenever we ran into mists, and invariably the confidence was
justified.

Indeed, so profoundly satisfying was the material itself, that while of
course, the question of its origin remained important, that importance
became secondary. It was conceivable that all this might be a product of
Betty's "subconscious." If so, this experiment was bringing to light a
trend of thought distinctly foreign to her usual consciousness, and
outside her remembered experience. If this were so, and if by this simple
technique we could make this unsuspected part of herself available, why
then we would be very foolish not to use it.

In the succeeding pages I shall speak of the Invisibles as distinct
individuals, though discarnate. This seems to be the easiest thing to do,
and it has the merit of expressing my present belief. I do not Insist on
this view for others; nor even urge it. The value of the thing offered
must lie in itself, regardless of its source. It may originate In Betty
(in which case she is more of a wonder than I had supposed): Betty may by
this mechanism tap some wide source of wisdom, some reservoir, some
"universal mind": or in this state of divided consciousness she may fall
into harmony with the stored or accumulated experience of humankind. I do
not know; and anybody is free and welcome to adopt any hypothesis that
appeals. But here the thing is. It did not exist before as a formulated
whole, either in our minds or in any of our reading: it came-and is
coming-in the manner before set down. Those are the facts. They may be
explained as you will, but they exist.

The following pages were assembled about a year and a half after the
beginning of the whole experience. The material that had come by then
comprised a little over four hundred typewritten pages. This was by no
means all teaching. A great deal of it was personal; and a great deal
more of it was devoted to experiments in acquiring technique and in
Betty's development. Consequently for general consumption it was becoming
increasingly necessary to separate the teaching and correlate what we had
into some sort of logical sequence. We realized perfectly that it was
only a beginning, and a fragmentary beginning at that; but we had found
that even that much had given us a new outlook and a fresh grip on life.
Furthermore, the few friends who had followed the experiment also
appeared to have found it strengthening and inspiring.

And now was the time to do it. One thing at least I had learned in a life
of explorations in strange countries: If first impressions are not set
down while they are fresh, they are lost. Striking things become familiar
commonplaces. The old timer no more thinks of mentioning them than he
would think of mentioning the fact that houses have doors. All this first
stuff might be tentative and only a beginning. Still, beginnings must be
made; and for those approaching the subject anew, as we had approached
it, precisely the beginning that helped us would probably, help them. It
might be, as our Invisibles said, only preliminary; only a Primer. We
have to have primers in a primary school.

That was over fifteen years ago. Since then we have added nearly fifteen
hundred pages to the record. And from this perspective we can see that
our judgment was good. The later material has indeed the profounder
significance and illumination. In the light of that illumination it would
be possible to rewrite my earlier compilation. We comprehend better now
what the beginnings were about, how they fit into the whole scheme, which
is even yet slowly disclosing itself. But would that be wise? These first
four hundred pages brought us to a certain point from which we passed to
an understanding of the rest. Our progress was wisely conducted. It seems
reasonable that the same stepping stones, in the same order, that offered
us a foothold may serve others as well.

It is wonderful exploration, a whole new country. The trails are dim.
Perhaps sometimes we must back track. But they seem to be leading
somewhere pretty definite. A shout across to those on other tracks
encourages us to believe that they all converge.




CHAPTER IV



Proportion


1.

When first I confronted the task of putting those four hundred pages in
some sort of logical sequence, I was appalled. There was no logical
sequence. The method had been, apparently, to deal with a dozen different
subjects simultaneously, adding to each haphazard and at intervals. That,
at the time, seemed unnecessarily baffling. Later we gathered that this
had a reason. It must be remembered that the ideal was of "intelligent
co-operation," and to this end Betty's own mind was never placed
completely in abeyance. Consequently, if the interest of the subject
under discussion sufficiently aroused its attention, then there was
always danger of its running off on a tangent of its own, adding its own
ideas or conclusions. This we called "coloring." To avoid that, a subject
would be carried on for a time, and then abruptly dropped. Later, perhaps
weeks later, it would be resumed. In the meantime a dozen others had been
introduced and partially carried on.

"How shall I begin?" I asked helplessly.

"The balanced proportion, the balanced ration of life is the first thing
to impress on the world," said they. "Balance is the big thing to
emphasize. The world is crippled now because of its withered spiritual
faculties."

There should be, they explained further, a certain working proportion
between what we call the material and what we call the spiritual. If that
proportion is overbalanced ON EITHER SIDE trouble always results. By
attainment of the right proportion we shall in one way or another gain
all the things worth while in this life and the next. In fact, the whole
problem of successful living can be expressed in that one simple formula:
attain actively the proportions of life. "The rounding out of proportion
is the foundation of everything" they told us. As a general proposition
that sounds broad and simple enough. But when we approach the problem in
search of detail, then we find ourselves in face of the greater
mysteries. How is the proportion wrong, as to the world; how is it wrong
as to me? How is the balance to be struck?

"You have enfeebled the word 'God,'" they said. "The world has grown
ashamed of the spirit. It mortifies it just as the old ascetics used to
mortify the body."

This thought is not new, perhaps, but it needs freshening and
interpretation. The balance happens to be tilted on one side now: but it
was tilted on the other, and it may be so again. "Religion too often
ignores the material and so repels the vigorously human. That balance
should be restored, for the proportion is wrong there too. Weld lovable,
humorous, vigorously practical human life with spiritual dictatorship, an
inward sense of proportion. Welcome and accept all natural human
instincts, all the savoring of life, but permeate them with the vitality
of the spirit. Those who savor even the highest forms of life without
this permeation of the spirit will stagnate, sink backward, imprison
themselves in matter. With them the spiritual sense becomes atrophied."

There is no doubt, to epitomize their further remarks on this subject,
that the main trouble with us now, in this age of science and what we
call hard-headed thinking, is just that lack of proportion which
atrophies our spiritual awareness. And there is equally no doubt, knowing
mankind's tendency always to overdo in reaction, that our main future
danger is likely to be a swing back to the narrow, ungodlike, inhuman
"spirituality" that mortifies the flesh, passes blue laws, neglects plain
business, and lets the world go hang.

Therefore while our Invisibles lay the most stress where it belongs, on
the present spiritual inertness of the world; they are also continually
warning us that only by a hearty mingling in all worldly matters, a
complete sharing of physical life, a whole-souled attention to our own
business and our relations to people, will we, or anybody else, ever get
anywhere. Over and over, in many variations of form, they repeat this
injunction. "Take up more and wider interests. Grasp the joy of living.
Mingle more with people," they admonish again and again. I must confess
that the common sense of this, coupled with their refusal to direct or
advise on any detail, went far toward enlisting my attention in the
beginning.

So then the first proposition of all is very simple: the balance, the
proportion of spiritual and material is out, with the overemphasis at
present on the material. But what are we going to do about it? It is all
very well to say "let us be more spiritual," but how are we to accomplish
it? A vague, expansive, indefinite resolve to be a source of light never
got anybody anywhere. All life is a practical affair to be gone at in a
practical fashion. That is just as true of the spiritual as of the
material. Day dreaming or vague enthusiastic mysticism gets us nowhere.
That is something we must come to realize; that is what repels the
average human work-a-day man when you say spiritual to him. He is
instinctively a practical man, dealing with life in a practical way, and
his intuitions as to that are perfectly sound. If spirituality is in
reality an integral part of life, as the Invisibles tell us so
definitely, then its development and use must be a practical matter that
can be worked on just like any other desirable ingredient of fife. With
this the Invisibles agree:

"Keep the emphasis on the usability and practical application of the
teaching," they said. "Necessarily in order to redress the balance we
have to stimulate the spiritual side; but the aim is not the development
of psychic powers. To the world the interest will reside in practical
application to everyday life; a thing it doubts as to the most of
spiritual development. The natural tendency is to seek psychic powers
rather than practice human living. All truly spiritual teachings have
been acknowledged as truth, have carried within themselves the conviction
of truth; but always they have been put aside as unattainable. We are
trying to give a commonplace working plan to make them attainable. The
gap has grown wider and wider between ideal and achievement because of
one-sided education, lack of cultivation, and even lack of
acknowledgment, of the spiritual being. We try to give a graded
instruction from kindergarten up, to convey a method of arousing and
stimulating and strengthening spiritual faculties dormant through
generations of neglect."


2. MAKE IT SO.

Before proceeding with this graded instruction, however, it is absolutely
essential that we realize one thing fully: THE NECESSITY OF SOMETHING
BESIDES INTELLECTUAL RECOGNITION OF TRUTH. Let us consider this
carefully, for its application is on every page of what is to follow.

We must not only read and understand: we must DO until we absorb into the
substance of ourselves. There is in that the difference between the
athlete and the person who has read the rules of the game, the art critic
and the painter who has struggled with pigments. We must not only see
that it is so: we must MAKE IT SO. This is not knowledge: it is
development.

"Do not merely file the letters we send with instructions and advice,"
went some of the earliest automatic writing. "Read them over and ask if
you are acting on them." "Put most of your energy into doing a few simple
things advised, instead of trying to grasp too much at a time. Do not get
the attitude of 'yours received and placed on file.' We want you to go
only as fast as you can develop. Otherwise we would be taking you from
useful things of the world into a no man's land of idle speculative
dreaming. This is far from our purpose. Your surface mind would go
through surface evolutions which would have no growth or corresponding
demand from within. You must use and exercise our teachings, not merely
acknowledge them as interesting. Mankind has always accepted so
comfortably the revelations of the chosen prophets of the world, and has
as lightly fulfilled its obligations by acknowledging their truth and
dismissing them; ever looking for something new before they have acquired
or digested the old."

"Your progress is in your own hands. We can do little but watch you gain
necessary strength before we can help you further. That is the law. We
can only act as the complement to the act. Of yourself you must drag
yourself at least near your idea, so that you can reach it in moments,
before you go further. Otherwise it is just a shallow intellectual thing.
There is no substance at all in pure intellect. It is just a very fine
shadow. The simplest achievement is so much more important. Pure
intellect is aloof, unrelated."

"Mere intellectual recognition of a truth is merely the empty vein; the
real force is the volition, the pulsing life-giving fluid of
utilization." **

"We can widen your vision, we can give you the impetus, but then we must
leave you to manifest or retrogress. If you could know how anxiously we
watch the seed, how yearningly we strive to continue the stimulation! But
we are not permitted to carry the growth itself. That is in your hands.
Truth MUST manifest itself in action. No step ahead can ever be taken
until the fulfillment of what is revealed. We say again, revelation MUST
be manifested in people's lives before more can be given from this side.
Slow growth is the only reality. All other recognition is but the
intellectual acknowledgment. Your wealth, as we measure it, is the power
you gain to become in solid reality what at first you have been merely
experimentally."

"We repeat: we cannot emphasize too frequently the fact that mere
recognition of occasional truth is not good enough. You must soak it up,
live in it, let it permeate you, let it control you before it is yours.
Nothing can be achieved merely by conception. This book is absolutely
useless if taken merely intellectually."

"It must be done, not under our manipulation, as it were, but in full
strength and purpose of your human faculties. These alone can act
successfully on your physical world."


3. THE NECESSITY OF EFFORT.

The thing we are to strive for, then, is a recognition of the spiritual
forces about us; a contact with them; and through that contact the
establishment of a more balanced proportion between the material and the
spiritual. Does that sound mystic and vague and fuzzy? It is only a
general proposition; and we can lay it aside and come back to it with
what will be fuller understanding. It is just a point to take off from.

The first step in this process, we were told, consists in establishing
conscious contact with the spiritual forces about us. And, like all first
steps, it is the most difficult. It has the disadvantage of being
something new and unaccustomed. It has the handicap of seeming to be
groping and intangible until we have found for ourselves a handle by
which to seize it. And above all, the "first dead lift," as they call it,
must be accomplished unaided. Once the process is started we will get
help in abundance according to our capacity to receive, but we must by
our own effort break through.

"In everything you do the amount of success depends on the amount of
energy you put into it," said the Invisibles. "The force we bring into
the world, let us call it inspirational force for the sake of giving it a
name, comes from a combination of conditions created by the person
himself. We can only take advantage of that combination. Once a person of
his own force establishes it, we can act on it. The initial step is your
work. This force is, roughly speaking, emanations from you which meet
complementary forces from this side. We utilize what you unconsciously
possess. You were born with wings: why prefer to crawl through life? You
acquire exactly in proportion as you arouse yourself to take."

"It is just by determination and faith that you accomplish the first dead
lift. That manifestation with yourself and by yourself, you must get
before you will gain any response. That is what people do not realize.
They don't put any strength into it, and when it will not work at once,
they go the other way. You must get that strength for yourself."


4. CONTACT.

The thing at which we are aiming-access to the great ocean of spiritual
influence-must, for lack of a better term, be called spiritual contact
and permeation. The term is inadequate. But assume for the moment this
hypothesis, simply as a working basis: that we are living in, surrounded
by, a finer more powerful substance. You can call it what you
please-ether, electric field, or spiritual vibrations. When we are
pervious we are permeated by it and obtain from it various elements of
expansion and growth. But ordinarily in our world-absorbed consciousness
is no chink or cranny by which its influence can enter. We are like
people swimming in a sea completely encased in diving suits that admit no
drop of the life-giving water. Only on comparatively rare occasions when
we are off our guard, so to speak, do we permit ourselves even
unconsciously to be reached by it.

But this contact or permeation CAN be brought about by a definite process
of personal volition. Consider this carefully, for it is most
important-this idea that we are capable of enlarging our VOLUNTARY
capacity to receive.

The first essential of this volition must be a genuine energy of desire.
We must WANT to reach out in harmony with spiritual forces. That WANT,
that desire is essential, and it is all that is essential, as a point of
departure. We are perhaps at first doing this only with our heads, but
later it Will unite with the rest of our beings, what we vaguely call our
hearts, our souls.

However, the mere undefined desire is only the taking off place. If it is
to send us anywhere we must have some indication of the direction in
which we are to go. What is this spiritual contact like, and how are we
to reach for it?

Possibly a faint notion of the process may be obtained from analogy. Most
people proceed through life "busy with their own thoughts." That is the
way, ninety-nine times out of a hundred, you will find yourself if you go
out for a walk. The teeming inner life of your mental activities holds
you, so that you are cramped within yourself and things outside are half
noticed or perhaps not noticed at all. Now stop short and let things
about you into your consciousness. You will be surprised to find how many
actually have had no existence in you. Birds' singing for example: a
moment ago you literally did not hear them. The line of trees on the
hill: you sensed vaguely that they were there because you were staring
straight at them, but the cast of them against the pale green sky behind,
the light on their leaves, the curious molten look of their foliage in
mass, those things simply were not. You saw the fields perhaps, but you
did not sense them. The EFFECT of the landscape, whatever it might be,
was shut out because you were occupied within the narrow confines of
yourself. Until you voluntarily threw open your spirit to wider
influences than those of yourself, they could not claim you. By this
shift of attention I do not mean a detailed intellectual appraising of
the surroundings, a cataloging, an enumerating of features and species
and lines of composition. That is another, a special job. I mean simply
the expansion that is the result of the shift from a busy mental
concentration within to a voluntary wide opening to influence from
without. That in itself is a form, a simple form, of spiritual contact.

The appreciation of beauty, in the sense of a surrender to its influence
rather than a critical analysis, is another example both of what I mean
and of a simple spiritual contact. "It is the biggest uplifting material
thing you possess," said the Invisibles. "Some may find the hidden spark
in a jewel, others in a temple drum or a Buddha. Beauty is a great and
quiet teacher." But what I am asking here is that in your response to
beauty you notice the difference between the out-going expanded feel of
you, and the indrawn close-huddled concentration of ordinary affairs.

Another example you can find, perhaps, if you are a lover of dogs.
Sometime when you are walking with them, you look up at them wagging
busily along down the trail ahead, and for a moment you stop thinking
about things. "Good old pups," you say to yourself, and with that phrase
is a distinct out-expanding feeling beyond your ordinary boundaries. That
is a minor instance; and I throw it in as one casts a fly on blank water.
It may convey a glimpse to somebody.

Please note, I am not trying as yet to give any complete formula or
directions for spiritual contact; I am merely trying to convey the
feeling of expansion and wide-heartedness, of getting outside one's self.
Once one has recognized the feeling I mean, one goes after it consciously
for the joy there is in it.

If this analogy is clear, then we are ready to begin the kindergarten.




CHAPTER V



Elementary Steps


1. RELAXING.

Most so-called occult instruction seems to begin with relaxing. It is
good practice, whether one believes in the ultimate result or not, and
one finds it surprisingly difficult to cease all tension, not only in the
body, but in every thought of the brain. It is at first a man-size job;
and paradoxically enough, one is likely to find one's self shortly in a
state of tension trying to get rid of tension! Nothing marvelous
immediately follows. But it is essential, and is the first simple
exercise toward the control that will eventually result in the spiritual
contact and absorption. Betty's first instructions, through automatic
writing, were concerned only with this point.

"Contraction," they pointed out, "results in concentrating and condensing
on the physical."

The job becomes much simpler if you just bear in mind one thing: the key
to it is imagination, not will. Nobody ever successfully willed himself
free from tension. Rather picture to yourself the condition as though it
already existed. For instance try thinking of your legs as heavy, and
then successively your arms and your head. Picture your face as smiling
faintly, but do not actually smile. See that your breathing is regular
and slow, and with each exhalation think of your body as sinking heavy
and inert.

"You must let go absolutely," said the Invisibles, "as though you were
falling through space. After relaxing absolutely, hold the condition as
long as possible; but as soon as it becomes a strained condition of mind,
abandon the effort and start over again. By degrees you can hold it
longer and longer."

At first all this should be practiced lying down; later you will find
yourself able to do it anywhere and at any time. It is rather a
fascinating game-and disconcerting to find how your left shoulder will
tighten up just as you get your right leg straightened out! It is,
incidentally, of immediate practical value in that it is physically
refreshing.

The removal of mental tension might seem more abstract and difficult, but
actually the technique is just as simple. In fact we apply it a thousand
times a day without knowing it. For every time we turn our full attention
upon sense impressions, merely as such and without regard to their
significance, our intellect pauses.

"Empty the foreground of your mind," said the Invisibles. And the first
step in doing this is to replace our usual intent intellectual foreground
with a casual sensory one. Little discontinuous sounds, passive and
placid vistas,-anything not too actively stimulating-these are ideal for
our purpose. Under their influence our usual headlong intellectual and
emotional Impetus quickly subsides, leaving the mind like a calm lake.

Once the mental rush is checked in this way, space is created in which to
take the next step. We must now reach out,-SPREAD out is more
descriptive-not yet with any definite idea of contact with the spiritual
world, but toward that wide-hearted, expansive, outside-yourself feeling
of which I have tried to give a glimpse.

"It is not easy to gain a perception of this process; nor, after we have
got the hang of how it feels, is it easy to go on with it faithfully and
with conviction." The results grow in us from so feeble a beginning that
they do not reach even our watchful consciousness for a long time. That
is a period of faith. If we are not convinced that it is going to work,
we can at least refrain from a conviction that it is NOT going to work.
We must foredetermine success, but above all we must not EXPECT anything.
Our job is to thrust out the busy thoughts of the world we live in, to
relax physically, and to strive with a real desire for that wide-hearted
receptivity of which we have had a glimpse.

At this point two warnings should be emphasized. First, it must be
thoroughly realized that this relaxation does not mean utter passivity.
"Now that you have learned to relax, you must study the degree of
relaxation," said they. "There is such a thing as too much abandon. Your
force becomes inactive. The thing to strive for is a subtle combination
of relaxation and a certain subconscious will power or determination.
Keep in mind subconsciously all your faculties, but empty the foreground
of your mind. The passivity is not that of the spirit but is entirely
physical and intellectual. Maintain yourself forcefully, NOT TO COMBAT
BUT TO HAVE STRENGTH TO RECEIVE. What you contribute of spiritual
readiness measures the strength you gain by contact."

The second warning is, DO NOT STRAIN. The moment stress, or expectancy is
allowed, that moment the doors swing shut. Instead of absorbing the
subtle effect of your landscape, you are cataloging, or analyzing or
hunting. When you find yourself in this condition, cease from all effort
and allow your attention to drift to other things. Let the traffic of
your mind proceed for a few moments. Then begin anew.

"Keep the body relaxed, but free, and stimulate the spirit to respond
with a great and rising wonder similar to that inspired by the
overwhelming beauties of nature. Unstopper your imprisoned spirit; let it
rise blithely and naturally. Enjoy yourself."


2. ASPIRATION.

When we have gained the ability to do these two simple things, without
strain, without effort, above all without stiff concentration of
mind-that is, relax physically and mentally but with a spiritual
alertness beneath that makes our inner selves feel wide open, as they
feel wide open when we consciously and absorbently and uncritically look
at something beautiful-then we can go on to the conscious reaching for
spiritual contact, or "The absorption into your heart of the reality."

This is so foreign to our everyday habit of thinking that it is a little
difficult to express. It is one of those things we understand only after
we have worked into it. The essential beginning is that we must DESIRE a
fuller life, whether we know what it is or not. The practical beginning
is to get our machinery assembled, as we have described, and then to
experiment with it until it works-as it surely will if our desire is
genuine.

It took more than a year of hammering away at this desire concept before
we felt we had really grasped it and could use it. They described it in a
hundred different ways. "It is a genuine aspiration, not an intellectual
curiosity," they told us, "a yearning aspiration, almost like the
attraction of needle and magnet; something above that can almost be
recognized as a complement of what exists below. When this recognition,
this genuine aspiration is established, then you have your spiritual
impetus. It is humble but unwavering, not an arrogant demand. It is in
reality a great natural instinct which life there generally inhibits. It
is just a law. When you liberate certain gases chemically, they seek
their chemical affinities, just so you liberate your spirit and it
automatically follows the law. Do you see the difference between this and
letting go all holds and waiting for somebody to lift you up? The latter
is enervating and quite useless." "The energy with which you demand of us
will be the measure of what you will get. IT IS NOT SO MUCH THE ENERGY OF
DEMAND AS THE SHOWING OF A FORCE THAT CALLS ITS COMPLEMENT. It is the
energy of measure for measure, given and received!"

"Do this continually, hourly; when possible, even momently lifting your
thoughts out of and holding them free. We use the phrase 'lift your
thoughts' conventionally. In reality 'spread your thoughts' would have
been more accurate. This permeating spirit is not so much above you as
outside you; but near you, surrounding you, within touch if you would but
believe it. Reach out, not up. When you expand thus with your heart, or
think horizontally, or whatever you want to call it, you come in contact
with this spiritual substance, for the reason that if you go beyond your
boundaries you must enter it. If you find this hard to grasp, just make a
mixture of energy, feeling of desire to get on, of the intense happiness
and outgoing that beauty gives you."

This is a slow process, and many times it will seem foolish to you, and
the hope for any results will appear fantastic. Remember that it must be
not only a gradual natural growth, but also often requires stimulation to
overcome arrested development of dormant faculties. Do not anticipate
results. Take the rewards as they come; and there are such rewards at
every step. The first mere physical relaxation brings physical rest that
can be got in no other way; the open-hearted feeling when acquired is a
pleasure and a mental and nerve refreshment in itself. For the moment be
satisfied with that; and get the habit. In nine you will be able to do it
"hourly, and even momently."

One more warning repeated before going on to the first effect of
establishing this spiritual contact. DO NOT STRAIN. "The moment you try
to create, to pump UPI to reach for definite things, you are in grave
danger. You may get almost anything. Better to stay asleep on earth, far
better. You will never get anywhere if you are thinking of what you are
going to get. In that case you would be just a curiosity seeker. It is
deadly hopeless to try that. You will be led into a blind alley and left
there. That is done with so many people!"

"Belief in the attainability of higher powers is a legitimate ambition,
but they must be grown into faithfully. The amateur method of seeking
growth or spiritual freedom is by a terrible concentration of mind, but
this must be replaced by expansion of the heart."

"How can I bring to you strongly enough this first principle? It is to
expand in spirit, not intellectually. The spirit is usually like a
desiccated fruit inside the brain. Let your spirit soak up in a simple
and pleasant fashion until it is a fitting mate for your brain. Lay bare
your problems to the influence of the great expansion which will bring
your solution. This is the only real channel which will bring permanent
wholesome psychic influence. It is the safe and open highroad. There are
other ways, of course, but they are exploration."


3. AUTOMATIC ACTION.

But if we are not to strive for any definite results, I hear you say,
what can we expect to happen?

Take it on faith for a moment that from the world of the spiritual that
is part of us, and should be a balanced part of us, comes an instant
almost automatic response to any genuine contact. This seems to be a law
of wide application.

It might be described as spontaneous action of the spiritual functions,
as they are developed, very much like the action of the heart in our
physical bodies. "When once you get hold of anything of this sort so it
is inside you, at once it begins to work automatically, so you don't have
to fuss with it. There is, pertaining to each level of life, what might
be called involuntary action. It is like digestion in that it works
automatically to produce results within its particular sphere of
influence or zone of action."

Incidentally this automatic action seems to be a law that follows all
effort, putting forth of volition. Whenever a thing is desired enough to
cause an outgoing of determination, automatic action begins. Thus on each
act of will depend many things. That is outside the scope of our present
discussion: but later in these pages the working of that law will recur
many times: so it is just as well to get the idea now.

At this particular point we are concerned with it only as it assures us
that the moment we succeed, however feebly, in gaining spiritual
awareness or contact, a kind of chemical action takes place; we are
getting results of some sort, growth has begun.

As to what, definitely, this automatic action produces must be left until
later. For the moment it is enough to know that, while the first dead
lift is ours, we are sure of aid in accordance with our effort once the
first small establishment is made.




CHAPTER VI



Later Development


1. HABITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS.

Even if we practice spiritual contact only once in a while it can become
a wonderful experience-one that will bring a unique peace and
understanding. And in the crises of life it can give support and
illumination unimaginable. And that is not the complete picture.

To catch a glimpse of greater possibilities let us return to our
illustrative country walk. You will recall the feeling of expansion, of
getting outside one's self, of widened being, when we stopped to include
in our consciousness the influence of a beauty hitherto held outside by
our preoccupation within. There is no doubt that the pleasure and benefit
of our walk would be greatly enhanced could we MAINTAIN that outreaching
expansion, could we CONTINUE to see and admit within ourselves the
influences outside. But we don't. We hold it for a minute, and then
something reminds us of something and our busy brains are off like dogs
on a scent. The trouble is that our established habit is against us.

When we paused at my suggestion on the hilltop we opened ourselves to the
outside by a conscious effort. When that effort was withdrawn we dropped
back automatically. We did not have the habit of keeping open to the
outside. This we must acquire if we are to admit naturally, continuously
an influence we have enjoyed only for a moment. Otherwise the instant we
relax vigilance our thoughts and emotions will seize on us and drag us
back with them into their busy little cozy lair.

And exactly the same is true of the more complete contact we have been
talking about. If we are satisfied with just trying it on once in a
while, most of the possible benefit will be lost.

"It is an HABITUAL SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS they are after," Betty
reported at one time. "The gaining of this does not mean straining or
striving; it is more a matter of how frequently you think of it, just
live it calmly and comfortably. Walk through your days as a creature with
folded wings, conscious of the possession of another element and the
ability to enter it. When worries and world annoyances come, you can rise
strongly and determinedly, spend a few moments in calm, and at once
descend reinforced to the object in hand."

"The thing is not to settle down into yourself, but to be always
dependent on the companionship of your spirit, that seems to be just
above the surface, like a mooring, or buoy. The soul has to live in the
body, ordinarily; but in this way you make your body live with your
soul."

Over and over in varying and sometimes picturesque forms this idea was
presented to us. HABITUAL consciousness of the spiritual association must
be gained; HABITUAL living in wide heartedness, receptiveness, must be
compassed; HABITUAL appreciation of the necessity for, and hence living
desire for, this spiritual contact must become normal. When it becomes a
mode of life, then we have gained the thing constant in ourselves.

"The only way to build it," said they, "is to make it a workaday ordinary
kind of affair of which you are aware all the time about your business.
If you want to get anywhere, you have to take this philosophy home with
you, and dress it, and eat it, and breathe it, and motor down town with
it. When you are able to do that you are ready for something more. At
present anything more than what you have would overflow into merely an
intellectual appreciation."

In other words, to sum up, we must not only understand intellectually
what spiritual contact is, but we must "make it so." We must not only
"make it so" occasionally, but we must gradually learn to make it a more
and more consistent habit.

But there is another, and very essential, consideration. We must not only
make a growing habit of spiritual contact: we must also keep it natural
and vital. Such things have a fatal tendency to slump into a kind of
mechanical ritual, conscientiously and laboriously performed for the good
of the soul. Better far to seek contact less often and keep its eager and
spontaneous freshness.

"The moment you begin to think about it too one-sidedly," said they, "you
become self-conscious. What are you going to do about it? Why, go where
you can't be self-conscious; or else get another idea of some sort in
your head. Nature is one way: sunsets, stars, moonlight, frogs at night.
You can't be self-conscious then. Snap go the bonds, and you are all
right. There is another way: through a thing you love, even if it is only
a horse or a dog or a plant. But it can't be done by just saying you are
going to do it; any more than you can just tell a man to talk French."

As time goes on we will be able to reach for contact more and more often
without "disciplining" ourselves too much. But at first "it is not easy
to be loose-skinned and natural. There comes a reaction-a danger."

And above all we must dodge the idea that this training is going to make
Superior Beings of us over night. "Months of successful effort must
elapse, until you are steeped, saturated, permeated with the fluid
strength of spiritual contact. At first you are struggling in a kind of
blind instinct to gather strength, but without being able to see what you
have achieved. Keep your faith in the vitality of effort. It requires
mastering before you feel the repose, the assurance of strength and
progress."

"The only relaxation is in accustomedness."


2. STABILITY.

Little by little, as we succeed in making spiritual contact habitual, we
may expect to come into possession of a quality they sometimes called
stability.

Stability, as a word, seems to have been accepted through lack of a
better. As used by them, it connotes something more than the usual
meaning of steadfastness.

It represents, rather, a definite positive quality within, which forms a
constant to which we can refer ourselves; a core around which our active
lives can be organized; an anchor to windward in times of stress. Betty's
approach to this idea was by the usual roundabout method of symbolic
experiences.

"I've got to climb and to work-a ladder-steep, hard work," ran one of her
early reports, "and it's got to be done enthusiastically and lightly and
vigorously and with steadfast purpose. I feel like a hod carrier climbing
a ladder. As long as I don't feel the weight and the climb-what is it
when you feel adequate to a thing: you have a tremendous load, but your
enthusiasm makes you unaware of it, so you don't feel it and are eager to
do it? I know what it is like: it's like the reason the pressure of the
atmosphere does not crush your body. That is what you have to be if you
are not to cave in, get crushed.

"Such curious work, such queer work. Certain processes that are like
exercises, unproductive in themselves but necessary for strengthening.
That is what I am doing: acquiring I don't know what. This is an effort
at sustaining a condition. You don't know how much steadfastness of
effort it takes. I explained how you had to keep up a certain pressure in
order not to collapse. That's what I have to do. It must be done or we'll
never get anywhere, we'll always be dabblers. It is like the stakes you
drive to keep plants from being blown around and broken. That is what
they want us to make. Until we have it to support us, it is all too
unstable and uncertain.

"I drove a big immovable iron stake. That was my contact. Having secured
myself to that, I built around it, quite wide and loose, a thing which
concealed its rigidity. It seemed to symbolize stability with
malleability. We seem to have to play little games like that. You must
have something to which to refer yourself: first as a stake in water
swirling about; then as planted in sand; and then as a fixed point in
space. It doesn't matter how you symbolize it, but YOU MUST HAVE
SOMETHING CONSTANT IN YOURSELF."

"They're all trying to break it down," she cried on another occasion,
"and I can't hold it together. It's like a reservoir always in danger of
being broken down by pressure from without. If it were to break down you
would lose everything in it, and it would be almost impossible to
rebuild. Failures are very bad. Just when I was thinking about
strengthening the walls and feeling full of confidence in my ability to
keep it from caving in, pressure was put on it from without; and in spite
of the fact that I ran around shoving here and shoving there it all
crumbled in. It was heartbreaking. It all crumbled in and all the
annoying things, the destructive things, the detrimental things came
whooping in. The reason it caved in was because I was working with little
materials instead of maintaining a tremendous pressure inside the
reservoir. If I had done that I could have more than equalized. Instead
of holding up the walls with my feeble earth strength, I ought to have
concentrated on filling with my own spiritual inflow. You cannot hold
against pressure from without in detail or in spots. You must maintain
the whole level. This is an attempt in various ways to make me realize
that the pressure must be from within outwards. What we must work for is
the feeling of inward force and pressure which is what we call the inward
spiritual consciousness. Until they are perfectly sure of stability they
are afraid to go on."

The applications and uses of this quality spread out fanwise in every
direction. It is through them that this philosophy attains much of its
significance and value. But that is a large subject, and one which must
be left until later.




CHAPTER VII



Personal Experience Again


1.

Enough of the text has been given in the preceding chapters to convince
the reader that the stuff is direct, simple and logical in expression.
Take the section I called MAKE IT SO. I have set down its sentences
without change, and in exactly the order they were given. But those
sentences came to us almost literally one at a time over a period of a
year and a half. They were scattered here and there in a mass of material
on a dozen other subjects. They had to be dug out and placed one after
the other in Juxtaposition; and when that was done, we had a complete
short essay, properly formed and proportioned'

Mind you, there was no Juggling in all this. On each occasion I put down
on its appropriate card in a card index the fact that something had been
said on the make-it-so idea, with the page number. Or on automatic
action, or the substance of thought or whatever. Then when the time
arrived for compilation I simply extracted each reference, in its
original order, from the main body, and copied it down. I did this
mechanically, without editing or "interpretation"; and I confess I was
amazed that what had heretofore seemed to be brilliant fragments made so
considered a whole. This make-it-so section represents twenty-five
entries on the card index, ranging from page 1 to page 390 of the record!

This method, of carrying forward a great many subjects at the same time
without clearly defining any one of them, was rather confusing. Just as
we began to glimpse some sort of sense in what at the moment was under
consideration, that subject would be dropped flat. The apparent
inconsequence was maddening: the fragments were interesting and
inspiring. "Virtue," we were told one day, "is not an end in itself, but
a measure of growth," which remark condenses a great deal of wisdom in a
few words. Sometimes they were beautiful in phrasing, "deprived of the
brooding beatitude of country-hearted things," for example. But for a
long time we groped. Only after it occurred to us to assemble together on
one sheet of paper all the scattered entries on one card, did we find
that we were in possession of a series of interrupted sequences. Then the
basic logic of the whole began to reveal itself as through a thinning
fog.*

* In the delicate job of extracting the sequences from the mass of
material, and in keeping them in logical order, my brother, Harwood
White, of Santa Barbara, has been of great assistance.

This was in itself a remarkable phenomenon; or at least so it appeared to
me. But as a method it was baffling, and laborious. Sometimes, pretty
impatiently, I asked myself the question you will ask yourselves: why did
they not state what they were driving at, in logical order and in so many
words?

One reason I have already touched upon. It is worth repeating. They
wanted to state what THEY were driving, at. They wanted no contributions
or dilutions from Betty. Such contributions-unconscious of course-were
inevitable if a subject was defined enough to arouse her interest. Then
it would be impossible to determine what was original matter and what
resulted from association of ideas in the station's own subconscious. We
called this "coloring." 77 It could be best avoided, it seemed, by
attacking the subject in these brief darting raids from different angles.
For a fuller discussion I must again refer you to the appendix.

Parenthetically, that portion of our experiences that had to do with
development, as distinct from the teaching, was largely aimed at the
elimination of this coloring. The mind of the ordinary sensitive is, by
the very fact of sensitivity, peculiarly prone, under almost any
stimulus, to seize upon a content of its storehouse mind and gallop off
with it down to its logical conclusion. If one is naturally "psychic" one
may easily and promptly get something extra-normal. But there will be
with it an awful amount of chaff for a few grains of wheat. The better
and more rugged the physical health, the easier the contact; the better
the nervous and spiritual control, the less likely a runaway into
irrelevancies. The effort with Betty seemed directed toward these things,
and NOT toward the development of "psychic power." The thesis appeared to
be that only by an emphasis on everyday living could anything approaching
habitual reliability be attained.

In this effort, interestingly enough, the "Invisibles" asserted that they
were groping, were experimenting, just as much as we were! They tried
several schemes which they abandoned after short trials. This necessity
of experiment, it is worth repeating, was because her technique was to be
exactly the opposite of the usual procedure. Ordinarily, you will recall
that we were told, the communicating intelligences came all the way to
the translator, and so became more or less dulled and confused by the
"denser" earth conditions. The idea was to reverse this, to train in
Betty an ability to go all the way to them, to enter THEIR conditions;
but at the same time to function in her own sufficiently to report back,
as translator, what she there acquired.

"We do not want to be very strong on this side," said some of the very
earliest automatic writing, "because it is part of our scheme for you to
do your share. It is an experiment to avoid the difficulties of relaying
messages so far. The idea is constantly to DECREASE THE DENSITY between
us to be penetrated, instead of trying so hard and so uncertainly to
penetrate it. We are now near your element, but must slowly and painfully
lead you to ours in order to hold uninterrupted and trustworthy
communication." The process was groping and consumed months. It was
fascinating to me, as a bystander. Much of the time they seemed frankly
puzzled themselves as to what next to attempt. "The variations we try,"
they told us, "are like the combinations of a camera with its focus,
stops, speeds, time of day, and so forth."

"The things Betty sees and experiences just now seem foolish," they
explained certain incoherences, "but she is being used at random in
experiment on many different kinds of forces." "I had a feeling of being
experimented on," said Betty herself another time. "The whole feeling was
of preparation, like an empty house that people were moving into."

"Sometimes we almost feel as if this system had insuperable difficulties
and that you will never have the patience to continue," they confessed on
another occasion, "Its suitability, however, seems to balance the
objections."

"What's the trouble?" I asked.

"We need more force," they stated with great emphasis. "The forces which
we generate seem to dissipate, owing to some lack of proper conditions or
attraction at your end. Leave us to experiment. We need more careful
diagnosis."

"You seem discouraged," I remarked.

"We are not discouraged: only puzzled," they disclaimed. "It is like any
problem. Don't get discouraged: we will find a new angle of approach."

"You think we are all-powerful," they told us again, "but we are not. We
have to grope as much as you do, and can only hope in the groping toward
each other to meet."

"I have read of other stations who do not seem to have all these
troubles," said I.

"Involuntary mediums are good only as long as conditions suit them, they
answered this. "A voluntary medium with control of her own mental
condition would be invaluable. This is the hardest possible way, but it
is the surest, most permanent and trustworthy. The others are brilliant
experiments, flashes. They succeed now and then, and are very
spectacular, but they have awful failures to nullify them. They are
hazardous things. You may get something, or you may become a nervous
wreck. This is a steep way but a safe way. We do not mean to say that
other methods may not get more brilliant or even better results
occasionally. But there is no method that can give you quite the same
splendid feeling of power and stability; because only with this do you
tap something. In this state you get the actual condition of the thing
first, and then slowly the commonplace word that fits it. When we finally
succeed, our progress will have certain mechanical conveniences that have
always been lacking in spasmodic communications."

I called attention to the authors of THE SEVEN PURPOSES and OUR UNSEEN
GUEST as examples of great fluency, coherence and apparent accuracy, but
"spasmodic" in the sense of spontaneous. They agreed but continued to
maintain their point.

"Their experiences were in the nature of phenomena," they said, "We want
with you to demonstrate the possibility of communication as a sort of
laboratory work that can be done by anybody through patient experiment;
just as electricity or any other natural force may be used. They had the
requisite character, training and mating. Then in addition the
connections on this side interested in the work made their selection a
natural one. They came nearest the requirements. The phenomenal method is
possible to many if there is sufficient concentration on this side.
However, the law of action and reaction indicated that there should be an
equal effort on both sides. Great concentration on one side only is
possible for but a limited amount of time. It could be indefinitely
sustained could it be equally distributed on both. As yet we have been
dependent on a phenomenal and rather untrained gift, instead of an
understood and carefully regulated mechanism."

"Why," I asked, "did you not tell us all this in the beginning? We could
have assisted with so much more intelligence."

"If some of these methods had been stated in the beginning," said they,
"they would have made you self-conscious and inflexible. Your clamoring
for intellectual satisfaction was at times very hard to resist, so we
dodged you and evaded you. Only by blindfolding you could we lead you our
way."

Another angle of the same subject was well expressed much later, and
though it is a bit of a digression, it seems worth insertion here. It was
one of the few instances when a definite personality named himself as the
source of the philosophical material. I will transcribe literally, as a
further matter of interest as to the form in which we record these
things.

BETTY: Some one named Willard (fictitious name here). WILLARD: I am
working for the whole scheme, and am interested in its followers, too.

MYSELF: We are interested, too, but we are greatly in the dark as to what
it is all about.

WILLARD: Curious thing, that: and a great drawback in getting the most
desirable intelligent workers. The stiffness of the humanly educated mind
is a great problem to overcome. It is like a spoiled child. The constant
humoring of this self-assertive side, the keeping it quiet enough to
communicate with the real person within is what makes the whole thing so
difficult.

That is the crux of the whole difficulty. Heaven forbid that I should
decry the human brain, but it should be proportioned. The eternal self
must be developed as a fit controlling power. In trying to act DIRECTLY
on the highest-call it organ-possessed by man, his eternal spirit, we are
constantly interfered with by the more developed, the more easily
developed side of him which clamors, INSISTS on translating every
instinct into its own language and limiting it to its own experience and
comprehension; insists we shall go no farther than the facile ready-made
symbols its world education sanctions. We have to ignore it as much as
possible, keeping it quiet by systematically baffling its efforts at
restriction. Meanwhile, under this anaesthetic we work directly,
stimulating the enduring part, trying to develop it. It should be the
dominating part of man.

When this has been developed to its proper proportion, then the
intelligence will have its innings again. The intelligence is an
essential part of the whole, but it simply must be quieted down and made
flexible in any way possible, in order that we may give insight beyond
its comprehension.

I am trying to give this side of it in order to satisfy your natural
intelligence as to this thwarting process. Let the big organ develop
naturally and take control. See if the whole man will not be better
proportioned.

I just had a notion I might be able to get this over to you a little more
clearly. Get it?

MYSELF: As I understand you, for a time you purposely thwart the
curiosities and workings of the mind in order to apply development work
directly. When the eternal side has been developed up in proportion to an
equality with the intelligence, then the latter will be turned loose
again for the purpose of understanding what it is about. WILLARD: Yes;
but expressed in terms of your substance rather than mine.

The main idea of the whole thing is that the thwarting process is in
order to develop beyond the comprehension of the brain, not to bring the
enduring organs merely up to an equality with the brain: to work away
beyond it, assuming at last control of the brain. The brain then becomes
a functioning part of the general organ, which then enables
comprehension. When it is adjusted to its proper proportion, then it
will, later, be the channel for manifesting the level of development to
others. We over here cannot work through the brain very well because of
its great educational and perceptional restrictions. Don't be so OFFENDED
in your intellect. Give us a chance. We won't do more harm than present
your precious intellect something for it to work on for the rest of its
natural life. Leave it in soak and keep it flexible, and we can go on.
It's BOUND to be satisfied later. When this becomes the leader of your
intellect, it MUST immediately react on it; it MUST, just as the blood
goes through your body to nourish all the parts. I thought maybe I could
make you see the point; it's always a great stickler. That's why I came.

Working only in the limited knowledge of the brain is slow business. It
takes generations to develop new respectable symbols.

BETTY: They let him in because they thought he knew how you felt.

WILLARD: Do you get the idea now? Beyond what you can understand, explain
by the brain. If that is what we want to get to you first, how COULD we
get it through your brain without the slowest of evolution?

MYSELF: I can see that as to the individual. How about getting it to the
world? You have to use written symbols of the brain for that.

WILLARD: To get some things to the world you must yourself get the thing
many times multiplied. No strength otherwise. There must be a large
submerged foundation for the lighthouse. It is too puny at present to
give out; too puny to be bountiful.

MYSELF: That all sounds reasonable and satisfying. But how can we best
co-operate, if for a time our intelligence is supposed to go stand in a
corner? Is it a matter of contact alone?

WILLARD: Let it go for the present with the development of your region of
feelings, susceptibility,--AGGRESSIVE feeling. Let it go at that. That is
the other side of the scale from the brain function. But there is a
difference between the sloppy, sentimental, emotional thing commonly
known as feeling, and the feeling of strength and stability that is
absorbent of wisdom.

BETTY: (confidentially) You see, we haven't any words around here for it.
Maybe there are some, but they don't come. I'm very bad on words, because
they get so far away.

WILLARD: The more you live in abandonment of the heart, the nearer you
come to it.


2.

But there is another reason, beside the danger of "coloring," why these
subjects were approached simultaneously and bewilderingly-from so many
different angles. This has to do with the difference between our way of
mastering a subject and theirs. That difference is summed up in a single
statement. Betty was reporting, as is often her custom, instead of being
used directly as a translator.

"I said to them," said she, "that progress must be easy

for them because they could see things and the reasons for them, and what
it is all about; but they answered that I was wrong. The way of our
senses is first of all to see clearly what we are going to strive for.
But the way of the perception of the spirit, the way they go at things,
is first of all always a struggle toward a clear perception of what has
been but dimly sensed. What they struggle for is only seen clearly AFTER
it is attained. Each attainment then provides the strength for further
effort toward something again dimly sensed. That is the difference
between their way of progress and ours."

"Never mind your clarity of perception of it," they said on another
occasion. "That necessarily comes after you have maintained conditions
for a long enough time to establish them."

This method of keeping the logic of a subject obscure until one by one
the details and component parts have been absorbed into the system of
life is very well subserved by the fragmentary kind of communication. It
is in reality again a part of the "make it so" idea, without which there
seems to be no value.




CHAPTER VIII



Elimination


1.

Two things cannot occupy the same place at the same time. If we are to
take in something new, we must make room for it.

That is self evident. We make room by putting something out. And that
something at once tries to come back in. Which means conflict.

We find that all along the line. Even the simple matter of physical
relaxation is full of it. We are forced to vigilance in excluding small
tensions of the muscles. As fast as we make one behave, another is on the
strain. And that keeps our attention anxious, which is not a state of
relaxation at all. The situation is emphasized when we attempt mental
detachment. Vagrant fancies snatch at us, and before we know it we are
galloping off down a side alley of speculation that has nothing to do
with what we are after. We are forced to a process of selection and
elimination.

There is nothing especially startling about this. We are doing it, more
or less, every hour of our lives. We are continually selecting what we
want to do, or must do, from all the things we might do. But we do it,
mostly, without either due thought or skill. We have of it little
understanding or technique.

Such a haphazard muddling through perhaps does well enough for ordinary
affairs. But when we embark on a program of expanding consciousness, we
were told, we should have something more definite. Our job is to take in
spiritual awareness, and somehow we must make room for it. Otherwise it
will have a hard time bucking the competition of well-established habits.

"You must free yourself in order to become aware of the self above
yourself," said they. "This is gained by daily breathing space of
association with the spirit."

"It does seem," ran one of our earliest automatic writings, "as if you on
earth scramble so much. Cannot you move serenely about your affairs? It
is an engulfing quicksand, your world. Do not mistake me: I am not
approving of hermits. I only ask for an effort to live in the world and
of the world with a free soul and sensitive spirit."

"There is no use trying to do anything if you have a lot of little
fishhooks in you all around that keep pulling at you," said they, much
later. "There is no use trying to do anything until you get rid of them
and assert your independence; it is hard to get these barbed things out."

"There's so much leisure of mind and soul and time for your attitude
toward people," explained Betty, "none at all for getting things two
cents cheaper at another store, and all those dinky-dinks. It's like the
difference in size between the figures on a moving picture screen and the
human beings in the front row. I argue that I can't live in a material
world without doing many little things; and THEY argue that that is Just
what we are sent here for, to find out what things are worth doing and
what are not. They have great respect for material labor and necessities
and such things; but they are only so important. They are not asking me
to do what the big idealists have done, like Buddha or Confucius; throw
humanity aside and walk with fixed gaze; but they ARE asking me to
approximate that freedom. It's a case of focus as near as I can come to
it. You must change your focus so that all the little things near you
will not look sharp and important."


2.

We were willing to agree as to the desirability of this, but evidently
the Invisibles were not satisfied with that. They wanted us to realize
not only its desirability, but its importance, and they held Betty to the
subject. Again and again they showed her symbols of various kinds that
stressed this. Here is one.

"The way they are showing me seems so difficult and painful-the skeleton
dragged from the living body," it was Betty reporting, "They are showing
it to me and saying, this is the real structure. All the rest, your
flesh, your clothes, your belongings, the motor you ride in-but they said
carriage-you Just pile on yourself. But after all there's your real
structure that has to carry all the unnecessary stuff. Yet nobody wants
to walk around in his skeleton. But you can entirely clothe it in
something better than all that smothering stuff. Funny way to explain it!
They keep saying: here's your skeleton. How are you going to clothe it?
They seem to think they've freed me from the old stuff, and that now what
I'm to do is put on my new body appropriate to my new life. My, that
other stuff looks clumsy, piled up all around, looks like Mrs. Tanner's*
stuff. It's repellant. It positively nauseates me. I wouldn't like to get
back into that! As they take it away I feel so naked and cold. It is
rather terrible to have it taken away; almost acute suffering. Oh, wait!
I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't know where to begin. Oh,
my!-there's a little something gathering about me, rather thin and filmy,
not formed and finished. I don't think that was a nice symbol. I don't
feel as much at home as I did in all that nice warm cozy Tanner stuff .
I'm all new and self-conscious and still a little cold.-Yes, I see what
you mean.-These strange exercises just separate me before my eyes; take
out parts of me and set them aside; and discard the rest. I don't suppose
in this life I'd ever free myself without all this play and mumming.

* A very wealthy acquisitive woman.

"I slipped-back. I always get back into those smothery things. They show
it first in one form and then in another. But these smothery things are
all so warm and human.-You can go on living in the smothery things if you
want to; and there's no direct harm and no judgment held against you for
it. Then why all this effort in this life? The answer is: it is
inexorably true that it has got to be done sometime, that great
passionate shove has to be done sometime. Each one must struggle and free
himself; there is no escape; it is the law; and the longer you
procrastinate and delay, the harder that struggle is going to be and the
softer and more unfit for it you are going to be. It will be a terrible
state, suffering, discouragement, blackness if you delay. Delay bears too
heavy interest. That is why all this exhortation for this life, why they
don't wait until we go over there. This life is that tearing out of your
skeleton, and when we are not doing it here, now, we are making it so
much harder for ourselves later. This is our crucial moment of struggle
right now. How blind and stupid to say wait for such things until we get
over! That is what your incarnation here is your test. That is what they
have been trying to tell us for nearly a year now. We can take the easier
way, but it delays the game and makes it harder. Use every ounce in you,
for you are bound to slump and get soft again. Go into it with the idea
that you will never relax. So important always to try! They keep going
back to the skeleton again. All this determination and effort is your
skeleton; and your body is the nice kind loving relations with people,
and the beauty f life. That is plenty soft enough without the satin
stuffy things. I wonder what I thought I was here for, anyway! Here's the
remarkable part: in spite of all the austere spine stiffening, right
along with that, there's a blitheness that is marvelous. There is a
wracking intensity; but when you have received it and acknowledged it,
they just come right up-it's jolly, so jolly and cheerful and vigorous.
They wrack you, and at the same time give you strength gaily, so gaily
you could crack jokes about it. All the good people on this side who
preach at you depress you without giving you strength. That's the
difference. I'll take my struggle now, thank you. It is hard enough right
now. I don't wonder they are anxious to come back and tell us. It must be
ghastly to be over there and see the people you love here sinking down,
down, putting off the struggle, laying up all kinds of trouble (laughs).
I'm so puzzled myself, you see. I'm groping toward activities-I just take
all these activities-my old smothery body, and by taking it off and
standing in my skeleton and feeling the need of a new body and taking the
substance of a new body and putting it on-why, I've created that thing,
I've made it come to pass. That is the kind of thing you do over there.
You do not merely talk about things; you think of them in substance and
create-I don't know where I'm at, which is substance, which is shadow.
Here I am building out of this substance; it's so much more real than the
consciousness I have every day. All I know is that the body is like a
yappy little dog, very insistent about itself.-I'm getting very tired; it
is so hard to get it back to you.-I'll lie still and review it. I don't
like these records you write. I have my records here. They are just
dropping me back in their impolite fashion. (Laughs) I begin to like my
body better when I get near it; I don't call it names at all. It's got a
little poison oak on it, but otherwise it is not so bad. I'd be pretty
dam sorry to come back and find it wasn't here. You don't know how
piffling words are when you work in substance instead. They showed me so
plainly the seriatim process in heir symbol. First the physical pain of
extracting the skeleton, then the removal of the smothery things with my
longing and regret for them; then the positive nausea at them; then the
chill and need of a new body; then the growing interest in the substance
of thought, and in the eager planning of the details of the new body.
Then came the knowledge that the new body cannot be built perfectly all
at once, that you can go on improving it from plane to plane."

In this manner, then, was built our acknowledgement that elimination was
very much an integral factor in the new job we had undertaken; as much of
a job in its way as "proportion" or "contact," or the "dead lift," or the
"stability." And, it was borne in on us, it also had a definite
technique. Haphazard and rule of thumb would not do. Naturally we wanted
to know what it was; and its prescription was promised us; but before it
could be given we must first comprehend an entirely new concept.




CHAPTER IX



The Substance of Thought


The concept we were to understand before we' were to be instructed in a
workable technique of elimination proved to have an importance far beyond
that. Its influence was to be basic. Once fully accepted, as an
actuality,-or as a provisional hypothesis-its influence must permeate all
that follows.

And now, for the first time we must take the word of our invisible
intelligences for a categorical statement. Heretofore the philosophy has
been a reasoning and a reasonable one. Now we must be prepared to accept
or reject EX CATHEDRA utterances; as one would accept or deny a
traveller's statement that in Utopia are beasts with purple wings. We can
believe or not believe, but we shall have no basis for choice, except our
confidence in those communicating, and the coherence of what they
communicate.

Yet that is hardly a fair statement. Ordinary physical science postulates
certain hypotheses in order to explain facts. Said hypotheses are pure
assumptions, without an atom of proof, reasoned out as probable, and
adopted provisionally because facts fit them. They furnish a taking off
platform.

In that spirit let the most skeptical of us follow the Invisibles; in
their statement that thought works in and on a definite material
substance.

"Without fussing about explanations," they stated emphatically, "keep in
mind SUBSTANCE OF THOUGHT, definite, tangible substance. You know the
power of thought in your world. Now extend, magnify, give a greater scope
to its actions. The law is the REALITY of this substance. The great power
that is in your hands is the recognition of this, and the setting in
action,-setting in chemical action-of the thought substances, which are
bound to create according to their species, their kinds."

They urged us earnestly to accustom our minds to this idea, using a
variety of figures to emphasize it. They told us that the workings of
created life as we know them are in reality parts of this substance
working in different combinations.

"You are capable of creating," they went on. "The practical application
of this in everyday life is to watch carefully, guard your thought
chambers. Allow full scope In all directions until they begin to create
undesirable, dragging or belittling things. Then destroy these
misbegotten things without looking at them by flooding them, overwhelming
them with the raw material for a new and better structure. At once,
without delay, replace the undesirable combination. Repeat this operation
continuously whenever barnacles collect.

"This confused halting account contains a mighty formula for growth and
beauty of mind."

That first statement interested me at once, and I proceeded to sidetrack
the discussion. This generally happens when I begin to ask questions. The
Invisibles seem to have prepared very carefully what they are trying to
get over; and questions mix up the plans. Especially as they tend to
attract the translator's attention and so are likely to arouse her
storehouse mind, with the attendant danger of coloring.

"In order to clarify," I asked, "Is the sort of work by way of
construction a fiction writer performs actually dealing with this
tangible substance of thought?"

"Yes, exactly," replied the Invisible, "Only suppose you could breathe
something more powerful into your characters and actually make them live.
That would be thought from a higher plane."

That seemed a little too extraordinary, so I went on. "Assuming that I
could do so," said I, "do I understand that such entities created from
the substance of thought would be independent beings, with power of even
limited free will, for example?"

"My sentence was misleading, not satisfactory," was the answer. "I am
fearful of making misstatements by fragmentary revelation. What you
create does most certainly go out; but remember; not unobstructedly.
Others are creating too. It is a very complicated subject."

"Has the result of this creative thought, this combining of thought
substances, then, an objective reality on that side?" I asked.

"Some are so weak they hardly live and move," explained the Invisible. "I
see all sorts of them. The lowest kind is the sheer-force kind, that
spends itself like a rocket and falls dead. It lives only a brief
stimulated career.

Other kinds of construction, that you build with lots of flame, and by
thinking also with your heart, are self-sustained and have real life and
live on."

I was still a little fuzzy on the main issue; so I asked a leading
question: "Then it might be possible for a human being of the highest
genius to create such a thing, 'that lives on,' and it might become
eventually an entity with a free will?"

"No," said the Invisible. "You are getting ambitious. It is too difficult
and involved to give you a satisfactory fragment. But we wish we could
talk on your ambitious question. That touches the wonder of immortality.
Be convinced that the flame you utilize in constructive thought does not
die. It does go on."

That was all for that day. At our next trial, as is their almost
invariable custom, they attacked the subject from another angle by
putting Betty through an actual or symbolical experience. It is often
difficult to tell one from the other; though when it matters particularly
they always inform us.

"They're showing me a substance and teaching me how to use it, the law of
attracting this substance and condensing it," she began. Then ensued a
long pause at the end of which she freed her wrist from my grasp and took
my hand. "I want to see if I can get that substance around you-if I have
the power to control it," she explained. Then another interim of perhaps
ten minutes.

"That's all of that for today," she said at last, " I lost my nerve on
it. There's nothing so terrifying as the unknown.

"There is an enveloping substance you can attract and surround a person
with. He cannot feel it and he is powerless against it in the sense of
breaking away from it or getting out of it or thwarting I couldn't
understand what I was putting on you, and the moment I clamored to
understand I got frightened. It is a great power of some kind. It seems
as if first you are enveloped with it, and after that I could magnetize
it with thought.. For instance, having enveloped you with it, I could
say: 'This substance will gradually seep into you, permeate you, relax
your nervous system.' And by replenishment I could keep you from ever
shutting out-being impervious, nerve bound. In that case it would be a
healing kind of thing-I think it is possible to direct it in other ways.
First you envelope in it; and then you put any kind of thought you want
into it. It would have to be very carefully handled-a terrible power! The
strange part is, it looks as though I might be able to smother evil with
it.

"It is a very powerful thing; you can't fight against it your resistance
is almost negative. That part worries me. There must be some resistance
possible in some way; there's some modifying law Perhaps I'd better leave
it today."

That was all. By this time I had learned that when a subject was dropped,
the abandonment was deliberate and in order to avoid the danger of
coloring. The next attack was by a symbolic example of actual creation in
the substance of thought. They showed Betty-or symbolized in pictures to
her,-a tract of land (representing, perhaps, a field of potential effort
and development). Here is her running report:

"It's wilderness work; conquering natural forces," she said after some
preliminary description, "It is chaotic and wild and purposeless, great
wasted dormant strength, and I am to do something about it I am beginning
to see things: flowers and things.

"It is building, and I don't understand it Wait-It's too difficult to
tell you This is very, very hard. Oh, I feel so helpless I don't
understand it, it's too difficult.

"They're trying to make me know how to go to work at this continent, and
I don't understand it It's the labor question I can't understand. I can't
do all the work there myself, any more than I alone could build this
place. It's a tough nut! I've got to find out about that, it is BIG! All
my relations with other people are there somehow Up to now it's been
solitary.

"Well, suppose I have a grand big plan, granting that I've had a dream
and made a scheme, and called out the thought substance; how am I going
to form it? Too important to get this wrong You can't' just sit back and
get labor to do it But you'd have to!

"I'm making it out of myself somehow. It feels like hard physical work
that is done by sweat and toil and energy. It's like breaking down cells
in your body, pouring them out of you, making a deposit of concrete
construction. Then you rest and accumulate more force, and then you make
another projection and deposit of work.

"It isn't such hard work after all It becomes a satisfying function. It
is very painful now; almost anguish That's the way it goes. It is
analogous to physical toil Worlds are all built that way, physical and
spiritual. Get rid of any idea of 'Let there be' stuff. There isn't any
let-there-be process of creation or building. I should say not! They put
me to work all right! They say I'll get used to it They keep pulling it
through you, this substance, as through the eye of a needle You transmute
it.

"That's funny, that's very funny! I've made a start on that continent!
I've got SOME work done. I can see it.

"I can't see why I do it alone. I can I t see why somebody can't help
There's something I've got to do first before I can get help. What is it?

"It's much easier now, much easier. I can draw it down and get hold of it
and shape it, and then step outside of it. Oh, yes, it's quite nice now.
It's a pleasure to do it now.

"Here's another difficult point: There are a number of people hanging
around me as if they might help, if I only knew what to do. I've got to
figure that out It looks more like calling out than hiring labor. Depends
on your ability to summon, inspire, coagulate, there's a bigger word for
it; leadership idea; an attracting power with a big altruistic idea.
That's construction over there: that's how you get people to help you.

"It was so hard at the beginning because it served only individual
purpose. It seemed to have been quarried by brute force for individual
purpose. There's a lot easier material I can use when I can rise to
obeying some law Pioneers are necessary; you've got to have them; they do
big work just fighting their way.

"That is progress. The main thing is to get the feeling of work, hard
labor spiritually. It is especially hard as I am combining two elements;
I suffer physically from the spiritual effort.

"I never thought about toil over there. Of course, that's the first
principle of construction. But how you do toil spiritually: and if you
don't toil; you're no good. You RENDER yourself somehow It's too new to
me; I'll say it better next time.

"It seems, vaguely, as if you have to begin on the rock pile, the hardest
kind of work, what corresponds to actual physical toil. You exhaust
yourself on it; but as you go on, learn how,-I hate to use words so
foolishly, but I can't find others.-As you go on, harmony lifts all the
hard part, and you work just as hard without the suffering part of it.

"My continent was all wild and woolly. I saw it like a map, saw it big.
There were masses of stuff that I knew were forests, and big wild rivers
with snags. It seemed such a hopeless mass for me alone. I felt so puny.
I saw lots of lovely flowers. They said: go ahead and make some sort of
plan about it, no matter how poor to start with. That is your measure. I
said: the first thing I'll do is to shape myself up a home site, just one
little piece that I can manage out of the wilderness. And then I grunted
and groaned and felt as though I was being torn asunder; and then it got
easier, and I found that a sort of clearing had been made in one little
corner. On my piece a sort of right-angled fence was made, an impression
of boundary. It surprised me, I didn't know I was doing it. It wasn't an
interesting thing to do; but I had to start somewhere.

"I saw my continent from above as from an airplane, a chaotic, powerful,
untamed thing."

This striking figure they left with us for some time; and when next they
took up the Substance of Thought the application was in a direction we
are not now prepared to follow. What we wish to emphasize here is the
help this concept gives us in visualizing the necessity for elimination.




CHAPTER X



The Technique of Elimination


1. ALTITUDE OF MIND.

This conception of the Substance of Thought gives us quite a new point of
view as to the necessity of elimination in the mental world, as well as
in the world of action and the world of material possessions. We agree
readily that in the latter we ought to pick and choose and reject. But
the mental world is not so defined. Thoughts are so impalpable, so
fleeting, that it is hardly worth bothering about them. Presently they
will vanish of their own accord; and nothing will remain.

But if thoughts are actual things, more or less enduring; working in an
actual substance; why then the matter becomes too tangible to be lightly
dismissed. We are forced to some action, immediate and definite, to keep
our mental premises from becoming all cluttered up with undesirable
thought-forms as unpleasant in atmosphere as any other garbage or offal.
We are eliminating substantial things-things of substance-in whatever
medium.

How to do? Let me repeat a passage before quoted:

"Carefully guard your thought chambers. Allow full scope in all
directions until they begin to create undesirable, dragging or belittling
things. Then destroy these misbegotten things without looking at them, by
FLOODING THEM, OVERWHELMING THEM WITH THE RAW MATERIAL FOR A NEW AND
BETTER STRUCTURE."

Often when we gird up our loins to fight a thing we lend it strength by
the very opposition put into it. The FLOODING OUT idea is one to get. "It
is very like any growth in the world," say they, "People spend their time
fighting things, when if they would only spend their time growing they
would just naturally shove these things to one side. There is only so
much room in a given space. If you grow and fill it up, everything
automatically gives way. That is the way plants fight."

They elaborated the idea a little further, on another occasion, by means
of a symbol, as is often their habit.

"This is it," said they. "The lower forms of even human life allow bodily
dirt, decay, even vermin; and sanction them as a necessary part of
living. But we know better; we've got beyond that and will not tolerate
them. But we are in the same state spiritually. We allow all these
bloodsucking thoughts, all these waste-matter things to share our spirits
with us, simply because we think they are a necessary part of living. But
they are not. As soon as we are strong enough to cleanse ourselves and
keep ourselves cleansed of them, we can stay on the higher phase as a
matter of course. It is just decent living.

"In keeping physically clean we do not worry about vermin, nor even think
about them. We get rid of them simply by living a certain kind of life.
They don't exist for us. There is no set opposition in them; we simply
act in a certain way and they are not. Likewise it is not a case of
avoiding consciously any specific thoughts. It is an attitude of mind."

That is the way I wrote it: but the words were hardly down on the paper
before I was corrected. It must be remembered that Betty, through whose
mouth the words came, was lying blindfolded on my other side.

"No, they set me right, 'ALTITUDE' of mind. It is keeping yourself on
that level, and remembering all the things that belong to it and
practicing them.'


2. ATTENTION.

"The whole thing is a matter of Attention. All sorts of things are always
swarming around you as thick as can be, but unless you give them your
attention, they can have no point of contact with you. Anything you give
your attention to is magnetically yours. So the only way to reorganize
yourself is to regulate your attention. That maintains your altitude of
mind.

"This sort of attention is just exactly the same as looking at things. It
is only the things you look at fixedly that really register."

"If you had to copy a thing you would look at it long and hard; a glance
wouldn't do you any good. So if you want to become anything, you must
keep looking at it, not just vaguely and generally, but fixedly, so you
can reproduce it. That is Attention.

"I wish I could find a bigger word than attention; it is so important."

In the external as well as the mental world, the same principles obtain.

"They're not asking me to give up all the little dinky-dinks I have to
do," said Betty at one time. "They don't care WHAT WE DO, it's HOW WE DO
IT."

"The thing you do does not matter," they agreed. "If it is humanly
desirable to cut up bits of paper or do anything small and silly, go
ahead and do it in the most efficient way you know how; but in doing it
keep full sail ahead. The trouble with you is you try to haul down your
sails and use them as floor cloths. You put draghooks in your spiritual
part, too. It is out of all proportion, it's the wrong way round; it's a
nuisance. That is how you damage yourselves: not by the things you do but
by the way you do them. Why hitch up a great big powerful machine just to
mow the lawn? And the mowing of the lawn is important, but utilize
attention and power only in proportion."

"As you get along," they told us apropos of something else, "you will
find that there will be a whole new set of taxes on your Attention, and
they will be much simpler and nicer. You pay there (on earth) a hopeless
and exhausting lot of taxes on Attention. You are always hedging and
squirming among things, paying taxes on your freedom."

"There seems to be some sort of regulation," commented Betty, "So you
don't have there all these nasty little taxes, each of which takes a
little drain out of your attention . Collect myself; that's it. In the
next step I am going to collect myself. All these little taxes are so
disintegrating ."

"Roughly speaking, the idea is this," they went on, "Everything you turn
Attention to, you spend on; pay a tax on. You go in for lots and lots of
little things. It is like having all your fortune in five and ten cent
pieces. You ought to have more beauty of proportion to it. That is not
saying the five and ten cent pieces are not all right: the world is full
of interesting little things. Spend as much as you want on them, don't
stint yourself on them in the least; but first you must have the big
things assured. Get your proportions and then see what you can afford in
the way of little things. It is just a case of what you can afford."

"They show me the big things and the little things, the big things and
the little things, over and over," said Betty, "I mustn't cut up all the
big things into little things. That's the freedom that is ahead. First be
rich and generous with the big things, then play with the little things.

"They show it to me in so many different ways. Now they are making
confetti out of some such beautiful material, and you lose all the lovely
design. It's such a pity! I long to piece it together again.

"Oh, they just made a terrible picture of the tax-paying thing. I know
what hell is; it's being forced to look at mistakes! Oh!

"You see this tax business Oh, dear! (distress) I'm trying to tell you
about it, but I am so miserable! They just drew out my life blood, a
little bit from each thing I am, a little bit from each thing I do.
Horrible! I won't forget that! Bloodsucking little things."

"Now we show you the condition," they concluded, "take hold of it.
Construct your plan of action. Take hold with boldness. Fortify against
yourself, your weaker self. Breathe life, determination, enthusiasm into
this plan. Hold your forces cleanly vibrant, not enervated with diluting
thoughts. The main danger is apt to be loss of stamina. Maintain your
vigor. Your gauge of strength is your concentration on your spark of
enlightenment. Fan it into a flame. That is what you work with. You
cannot let that die, or smolder. Keep fanning it; that spark is your
spiritual energy. Watch your foredetermination, particularized
foredetermination, not just hazy. Work over it carefully as you would
over an architect's blue print. That is vitalized thinking, a creative
thinking. There's substance to it. Make a start of materializing to
yourself, analyzing, grasping, taking hold of materials at hand, and
fashioning something out of them. Thought is the material, but not
speculative thought, positive building. It seems to be all grasp, taking
hold of the few things you've got, and grasping them and holding onto
them, and by and bye, you've shaped something. You can have them now.
Just the mighty strength to take, the imagination and idealism to see
them and reach for them. Constantly uphold the tradition of an
unconquerable spirit."




CHAPTER XI



Do It Now!


1.

The customary trend, in the great majority of such experiments as ours,
is toward either straight spiritualism or the development of so-called
"psychic powers." But in our case both these aspects were ignored.
Basically our effort was to be directed, they told us, toward an
AWAKENING OF CONSCIOUSNESS. "The nature of it," said they, "is the
abolition of barriers, the breaking down of the walls obstructing
spiritual vision." They had no time for wonders or personal
identifications. Certain "psychic powers" might develop; but if so, they
would be as incidental to the main job. So pointed was this refusal to
concern us with what, after all, is the most natural of curiosities, that
I broke through the programmed trend to ask a question; and, what was
even more unusual, I got a reply.

"Are merely personal communications deterrent to your scheme?" I asked.

"They only develop a certain futility, if continuous," was the reply.
"The conditions on both sides are so inexplicable that satisfactory
communication seems sometimes to decrease instead of progress, owing to
discouragement, or dissipation-scattering-of concentration on really
important subjects. There is great difficulty at best. Discretion must be
used, and it must be in the hands of masters, experts. Much trouble and
muddling results from indiscriminate communication."

All this was taking place, you will remember, during the wave of popular
interest in psychics just after the close of the war. This, our
Invisibles acknowledged, was helpful, but its aspects were not entirely
satisfactory.

"There is too much emphasis on the 'Spirit' aspect,"

they told us, "and too little on the individual application of what it
all means. There is too much interest in the mere fact that friends still
five about us; overlooking what they come to tell us. Your own growth is
what matters. We cannot hope to touch each other often; any more than can
any friends living in different places. The thing that counts is our
daily aspiration."

"The point is that the natural tendency is to seek psychic powers rather
than practice human living. There has been an over-balance of attention
on mere personal identification, which is necessary if balanced by
stability and direction of effort toward spiritual perception. Otherwise,
if spiritual perception is not developed, nothing can be given after
identification is established. Do you see more clearly the practical
application of our instructions?"

"Your cautious skepticism dragging back on your intuitive recognition of
the truth was your main attitude in the beginning. A certain attitude of
fair play in allowing us an uninterrupted voice to develop our argument
led to the success of the communication. Fearlessness and confidence in
your own power to reject if the communications became less convincing
also aided in success, in happy combination with the interest of both of
you in exploration."


2.

Satisfactory and sensible, we thought; as far as it went. But I had
another question, and it seemed to me legitimate and natural.

"Agreed as to the importance of all this," I stated, for the sake of
argument. "Why the hurry? We are supposed to have all eternity before us.
Why should we 'fash' ourselves with it now? It takes considerable of a
sustained effort, if it is to amount to anything. It involves a radical
change in the point of view. Life is full. For the average man, of
sufficient maturity to take this in, routine and habit are pretty well
established. He is fairly well content with things as they are. That is
his natural life on earth. On the other hand the spiritual life is the
natural life after he dies. Why not postpone all this development to what
would seem to be its natural season and environment.

For once I must have hit upon a vital question. It brought not merely a
reply: it opened up a whole new subject for most emphatic insistence.
And, like all other cardinal subjects, it was presented to us
recurrently, at odd times, until it was molded into the main body of the
teaching.

The gist of it was this: that this spiritual quickening, this conscious
contact, must take place at some point in our evolution. The sooner we
attain it, the better. It can never be entirely postponed to "its natural
season and environment" (my idea). In one form or another, to one degree
or another, every human creature must and does, during his normal earth
life, attain SOMETHING of spiritual contact. Otherwise he is completely
sidetracked; "lost," I suppose it might be called, in the old Biblical
sense. That is most often merely an unconscious function of living. But
if he can get it consciously and voluntarily, it is infinitely more
effective.

Furthermore,-and here is the real answer to my question-the "natural
season and environment" is NOT wholly in our next state of existence.
There are in this very earth life certain facilities for beginning which
are lacking in the next state of existence. We can begin then, if we want
to postpone, but it is going to be much harder. Failure to take advantage
of our opportunity here means difficulty and bitterness later. "Delay,"
said they strikingly, "BEARS COMPOUND INTEREST, which you must pay."

The urging of this point became at times almost frantic.

"Arouse yourself," they insisted, "It is worth your greatest effort. Once
started you cannot choose: you must take all or nothing. You will get as
far as your own yearnings carry you. You must not fad. We cannot let you
now. We are mightily and intensely pledged to your success. All of my
strength goes into this plea tonight to arouse you from your world
lethargy. Fix firmly in your mind the things to cling to in times of
danger threatening your purpose. The first is grim determination to
succeed; and the second is a great heart hunger which is the call of
love. These will be your strongholds. Could I lash you to my own frenzy
of purpose, I would for your own salvation. We cannot always come with
the force of this evening, and I want these words to burn into your soul,
to be your obsession and your ruling passion. A tremendous stimulation it
should be to you. Power wanes, and I want to leave you at my highest
pitch of urgency, calling to the deeps of you to answer the great duty
you have been chosen for."

Evidently they now appreciated the importance of giving us some
rationale, some notion of what it was all about. "I will try to tell you
something about the aim of all our efforts," we were told a few days
later, "Imagine if you can a world in which truth is one general and
something we will call blindness is the opposing general. These two
simple factors one must choose between. There are no neutrals. We are
frankly for or against and hold our positions by the force of the effort
we put forth. The great struggle is not only to conquer our opposing
forces, but to reclaim and form them into fighters for the truth. It is
more of a game than the mere overcoming, for we are after the plunder of
human souls to salvage. This, of course you know, is the A B C of our
work.

"Now what I want to tell you is that when you come here it is more
difficult to make the voluntary choice than you can imagine. It seems
that you would unhesitatingly choose the side of truth, but it will be
almost impossible for you to do so unless you have made yourself an agent
or disciple while on earth.

"Why are you all so afraid of the truth? Why do you not look it squarely
in the face? You want samples of what I see to illustrate your fear; well
then,-have you thought out or taken stock of your first principles? What
are your most valued possessions? Begin there: love, health, time, etc.,
to mention a few. Decide which they are and observe how you are guarding
them, cultivating them and acknowledging them your treasures. You throw
your pearls before swine. It is the usual procedure.

"What I am trying to lead up to is that we are striving to MAKE YOU AWARE
in your present life of what you really desire. The free choice is yours,
only choose; do not muddle along until unconsciously you have fashioned
habits which are your paste jewels. The time will come when you must
abide for awhile by your choice, and your treasures will be ashes in your
hands.

"This is the best I can do tonight to show you why I insist on preaching
to you. I should like to be able to say it better, but the main thing in
any form is to have it reach you.

"Your life is more selective than ours they explained another time, "and
so you have a greater chance to waste yourselves," as well, of course, as
a greater chance to develop ourselves along certain specified lines.

"We grieve most over the poor in spirit who close their hearts to our
life. They fear effort and struggle, when all you have really to fear in
your life is blindness and stagnation."

"It is funny," said Betty wonderingly, "they don't look so black on this
side, the people who try to escape and have bad luck-opium, drink, why!
even anarchy!-it sounds dreadful to say that! They haven't stability, but
they are trying! The ones who look black are the hermetically sealed type
who are not trying."

I pointed out again that in reality the great bulk of mankind does not
consciously reach for spiritual association; but that a spontaneous and
indirect growth nevertheless does take place.

"It does, slowly, by processes of which we are unconscious," assented the
Invisibles, "but it is conscious utilization that makes awakened, whole
and living beings of us.

"Do not mistake the idea," they went on. "You can fight through the
incentives of world ambitions, through all the lower order of things to
the attainment, and thus to the comprehension of the futility of that
attainment. But it is a slow and laborious method. It is a terrible way,
for there is so much danger of quenching your spark completely. But still
it is a way of fighting through. It is for one type of mind: some HAVE to
go that way. Egoists always have to go that way, people undeveloped on
the spiritual side. Thus they gain insight."

"Interesting," put in Betty, "I can see the long line of world things
they accomplish."

"They are quite useful," pursued our friends, "if you grant that that
form of life is the most desirable! That's the point."

"I can see the egoists," said Betty, after a moment, "Some of them are
living in a world of self-delusion, satisfied because they've almost
stifled their inner spark of freedom; others force their way through to a
heart of bitterness; some stay at a curdled stage; in others a powerful
kind of chemical separation takes place in preparation for the throwing
off of poison. These are the most hopeful,-they're on their way . I
should say the others would have to do it over again. They'll have
another chance; but a harder one. Next time they'll have the
self-delusion, but the effort will be without gratification. I'm not sure
about that.

"I wonder what the curdled ones will get? I don't know. I'm coming out,
and I would like to know, too. I'm so sorry for them."

There is generally no necessity of working from the earth end up instead
of from the spiritual contact down, they agreed later, though it can be
done, and usually is done. The process is both slow and imperfect. It is
spiritual contact that does the work in either case. Only by spiritual
contact, however slight, does anybody ever get anywhere. "It is your
personal participation in the whole scheme of things, your heritage of
responsibility. People who do just that, but in simple faith, get a kind
of contact, an unconscious adjustment. It is not of a very high order,
not very active or productive, but it has a simple kind of guardianship.
It is better to struggle and strive, and get the power of your effort.
However, that's where you start, by contact with the spiritual, an
outpouring of faith, worship, demand, indulged in as often as possible.
Then, you must strive to create an image of what you were intended to be.
And these two, even in your most disconnected moments, should maintain
your life. That contact, when gained, puts all your machinery in motion."

"It is strange how we always work from this end" (the earth end) was
Betty's comment, "The whole of the universe is written with clues of the
other way. That is the reason for beauty and grandeur; they are just a
clue as to where to go for your instruction, as to what to do with life.
Instead, we set up our own little standards. They are all right; but we
leave out the supreme."

"We can begin there, and work down through laws; or we can begin down
here and work up through failures and misfortunes. Some people have to do
it that way. The danger of working from this end upwards is that you shut
out the possibility of looking beyond your own standards."

Conscious, voluntary spiritual contact, then, simplifies our problems and
speeds us on the road of progress-and not only in the future life, but
also right here and now. Every day that we delay we are both laying up
trouble for ourselves later on, and diminishing our present efficiency
and happiness. So from every point of view it would seem better to make
the start now.

"It would be such a pity if we didn't," Betty concluded a talk on this
subject, "so stupid if we didn't! It is the difference between a very
ignorant person and a cultured and spiritually educated one. I want to be
spiritually educated."




CHAPTER XII



The Spiritual Body


I had still another question, which was considered pertinent.

"What," I wanted to know, "are the definite results-aside from
refreshment and expansion-to be expected from this system of spiritual
hygiene?"

This evoked another concept of the sort I have called ex cathedra. Like
the substance of thought idea: and like that it can at least be accepted
as working hypothesis. It is of the reality of the spiritual body.

There is, of course, nothing new in that idea, in and of itself. Many
systems of religion or philosophy postulate an "etheric," or "astral," or
"prototype."

Like most other people I had accepted the notion as a more or less
fanciful symbol.

But our Invisibles apparently did not take it this way. They spoke of it
as an actuality.

That, in brief, is the thesis presented to us in answer to my question. I
asked another.

"I may be literal-minded," said I, "but I am going to ask whether this
spiritual body as you describe it is a symbolical statement meant to
convey a concept, or whether you mean it literally as you describe it, as
a material thing."

"It is ACTUALLY MATERIALLY THAT," returned the Invisible emphatically,
"in its own condition of health and development. It is flesh and it is
blood. It may not be the same kind, but it is as real, as warm, as living
as your own."

After about half an hour of silence one day later, Betty answered my
unspoken question as to what it was all about.

"I am trying to perceive and understand bodily substance over here," said
she. "It is fibreless, but definitely cellular . I don't know what those
words mean: I don't know enough about construction . I have a definite
body and not a vaporous or fuzzy one either. It is a finer rained
substance than flesh. It is not fluid, but mobile. It is more Sensitive,
more easily acted upon; and at the same time more indestructible, more
durable, more self-protecting. You would recognize in it a refinement of
matter, a little understood etheric combination . I'm getting dizzy."

"Abandon in faith," The Invisible helped her out with a formula of their
own.

"Fibrous separation," began Betty, then gasped and choked.

"Careful," warned the Invisible.

"It is a pulsing, living body purified of organic frailty," she began
again, "durable, flexible, susceptible of more powerful action through
susceptibility of sense."

"Now hold fast! Press on! I want to carry this through!" urged the
Invisible.

"The sense radius is greatly extended. It is a definite entirety, only
unfinished, like a nucleus open only at the top."

"Tethered by bodily sense, this is the best we can do to give you a
perception of the spiritual body," the Invisible concluded.

"It is a perfectly good body," put in Betty, "but it is so uncomfortably
new. I'm a little cold, too. It didn't seem that way before, but now I
seem so unclothed. My flesh is like a garment around me now," she said,
stirring to life, "I don't see what I could do without it. Before it
seemed all right, so I guess I must be coming back. I know I'm coming
back. I feel fibrous; was that it?

"I don't understand cells; that's just a name to me; but the other body
had definite construction. It seemed to contain something in cells that
were a different material, a different combination than what was outside
the body. But I can't tell that very well. I just know I was completely
organized with a body.

"What material should you say will power is made of? That is stronger and
more durable than matter. It grows in strength. How is it constructed?
Goodness! How limited science is! It looks so kindergarteny from here!
There are all these different substances, definite substances, and nobody
recognizes them except as abstractions. They are just as real as they can
be: I see them distinctly. I wish I had a little better equipment to work
them. If I knew physical laws scientifically in my own world of matter,
they say, it would be much easier to make symbols of the spiritual law. I
am so ignorant and they have to circumlocute; and that makes it
inaccurate and vague."

At another time we were given a glimpse as to the essential nature of
this spiritual body. The talk had been on the subject of its development.

"So few people have any ground plan," said the Invisible, "They can't
make any form for you because they haven't any. That is what character
is, SHAPE."

"So many people moving slowly by," Betty reported, "how curious! how very
funny! They look Eke a double kind of image, with faint outlines-like
X-ray pictures. They have translucent bodies, shadows of bodies, as their
human bodies; and I see them plainly only according to the cores they
have grown. Oh, poor things! poor things! It is like an X-ray photograph,
and some of them are just gelatinous; they haven't anything in them;
almost no skeleton. What an awful way to see people! You do pity them so!
It must be so despairing to be without it!

"I call things all wrong, get them all mixed up. I don't know what to
call it,-I called it a skeleton but it is a shape, a structure, a body.
It is terrible to be without it.

"These people are so painful to me; I just suffer for them; it is like
the physical tension of watching paralytics shuffle, a kind of anguish to
your own health; so that you must help. What do I do to help? If
everybody could see how they look, these poor things. A few pictures like
that would help people so! Why aren't you taught this way when you are
young? Why aren't you shown like this the reality of the spiritual body?
Spiritual body to most people is Just an ecclesiastical term.

"This way of seeing people is like those confusing maps* where they color
the water and leave the land blank. It is reversed. The intangible
unfleshed things, honor, character, confidence, all such things, should
be visualized with a shape, a substance."

* Charts.

"I should like to ask," I interposed, "whether this is an illustrative
picture merely, or is that the way you normally see human beings from
that side?"

"That is the way our lenses actually perceive you," answered they, "we
cannot see you, as you see yourselves, without your physical eyes. Our
eyes are for the enduring different kind of body. Our eyes make real to
you the intangible qualities which you call spiritual. Only strainingly
do we perceive the material."

"You have said that you could see the material when it was worth the
effort," I reminded them, "Do you do that by some sort of external
mechanism analogous to our microscope; or by an effort within
yourselves?"

"Very nearly as you make the effort to perceive spiritually," said they,
"by sympathetically entering your environment aided by memory records.
Very badly said."

"I get a notion," I resumed, "but once having thus entered our
environment, do you see clearly physical happenings, as a ball rolling
across a floor, for example?"

"The farther you get away from a sound, the fainter it becomes. Some of
us can still reshape ourselves actually to participate in your lives.
Much can be done by practice and comprehension of law. Others have no
further desire to repeat experience, and even fail in communication be
cause of inability to co-operate-I don't get the words right-fail in
communication because they disregard the proportion in which you live,
the superior visibility of the flesh, of the world."

"Now please let me get back to my emplacement," said Betty, who was
getting tired.

"Remember there are shapeless people and structural people," said the
Invisible.

"I'll never forget the gelatinous lot," Betty assured them.

NOTE: See appendix for record of experiments demonstrating the actuality
of the spiritual body.




CHAPTER XIII



The Spiritual Realm


Before proceeding to take up more in detail the results we may expect
from conscious spiritual contact, let us pause a moment to fill in a
little background for this spiritual body idea.

Apparently some part of Betty, call it whatever you like, has left the
body lying on the couch and has visited and reported back from other
states of being. I am picking my words carefully in order to keep within
what appear to be indisputable facts. That SOME part of her has left the
body has been sufficiently proved to us by her reports of distant actual
physical things of this world. I say some part of her; and you can call
it her clairvoyant sense; or her acuter consciousness; or herself; or
whatever you please.

The possibility of this having been proved in verifiable fashion by her
reports of distant and physical things, it is but a step further to
postulate that some part of her did leave her body and enter another
level of consciousness. It does not matter much what the theory is,
provided the reported experiences fit accepted truth.

In entering this higher level of consciousness she has been held, up to
now, rigidly to two purposes; development of accurate reporting ability;
and perception of the specific scheme of truth the Invisibles have
determined to impart. Seemingly, it is not part of their purpose, or at
least of their present purpose, to try to give us knowledge of their
method of life. The idea, the insistent idea, is to give us a knowledge
of what should be OUR OWN METHOD OF LIFE. Questions as to conditions over
there they answer sketchily and a little impatiently. They tell us we are
not yet enough educated to comprehend fully what they might tell us, and
that we would interpret it into our own earth concepts. The result would
be a distortion: and they prefer not to distort. Nevertheless, in some
directions, we are slowly getting a faint conception of their state of
being.

In spite of the experience that it is better to let the Invisibles make
their communications in their own way, without throwing query across the
current, it was sometimes impossible to resist the temptation to ask
questions.

"Was yesterday's surmise that Betty was to begin life there while still
living this, correct? " I asked one day.

"Most assuredly," replied the Invisible, "There is certainly truth in it.
Do not separate the two lives in your mind. Realize that the power to
overlap is yours. The expansion of her spirit will enable her to live
increasingly our wider freer life, while still retaining her outgrown
body. This body we will utilize as a funnel to pour into the world more
life-giving perception."

"To what extent will she live your life?" I persisted.

"She will become increasingly aware of our life, but not part of it," was
the reply. "As we have said, she has her own part to perform. Until
released from that she will not be free to enter our life, as you seem to
mean it."

"I'm aware of it without taking part in it," put in Betty, "because I'm
tethered."

"She will approach and comprehend our conditions," went on the
Invisibles, "as she acquires strength to do so. There is no limit set,
but our conditions must be grown into, not merely looked at with any
degree of understanding. It is all gradual acquisition and growth."

"It is very simple," said Betty, "I couldn't understand anything unless
I'd grown to it, for the reason that I'd be blind to it: exactly as a
baby is blind to things it does not comprehend, even though it is looking
straight at them."

"Well, will she be able to see and recognize you? " I insisted.

"Cannot say how much profit there'd be in reproducing our former selves.
Rather it seems more pertinent to let her feel our companionship until
she assumes our form and recognizes us as we are now," was the reply.

"That's what I mean," said I, "Will she be able to see your present and
real forms before her own death?"

"Impossible!" said the Invisible emphatically, "She will see the
border,-how clearly we cannot yet say; but further than that it would be
too boundless and incomprehensible."

"What do you mean by the border?"

"The border is the farthest point of exploration possible for humans to
reach. She may extend it. It is not a definite boundary."

"I don't see any spheres," said Betty after a moment, "But an open
country without roads. You go as far as you want to make roads for
yourself. Some people sit down and don't go any farther because they
don't want to make roads. They're there because they want to stay there.
That's all I know. I'm tired and puzzled and stirred up, and I'm coming
out."

In the course of this development she made various excursions,
apparently, which had to do solely with the development and on which her
comments were haphazard. They were not intended to convey anything
coherent; nevertheless I took them down. There are quantities of them;
but I will quote a few almost at random, not with the expectation that
through them you will gain a definite outlook, but that they may afford
you glimpses, carrying inspiration.

"The place seems to be a place you enter after certain eliminations," she
said suddenly one day, "It doesn't seem to matter how small, naked or
empty-handed you are: it's just a matter of getting rid of things and
making a start. I can't get there yet. It's a place of unencumbered
vitality and desire."

"It's the world in which one deliberately and consciously acts upon
substances and forces about which we only dimly speculate and realize on
earth," she said again, "I am on a level with them, same level I can only
feel it now; everything has been put out of focus for me. They say I
mustn't look at it today."

"They are showing me how to combine the two worlds. This is the threshold
where they meet. I must live on this level a great deal to get used to
it. It's perfectly real, only I'm not at home, not very comfortable. They
touched me then."

"It's like organ music," she reported on another occasion, "I don't hear
it exactly, but it is like a rhythm rising in a great crescendo. I want
to rise to it. It's all swinging. I should think you could feel it. Funny
to hear music without any sound. It's dying away as through the branches
of a tree. It was very beautiful."

"Where are you when you are 'up there'?" I asked her during one of her
earliest experiences.

"I am in a nicer, more comfortable atmosphere where I can see things."

"What sort of things?" I inquired.

"I see what is important and what is not, mainly," she replied. "I only
feel conditions, not my friends, yet. I am in a wonderful atmosphere, and
it is teeming with life, and it is plastic somehow, and there is such an
urge back of me to go forward with wide open heart and arms."

"It is no longer a spooky, way-off, celestial sort of state," she
remarked somewhat later. "It is a commonplace everyday place I go into as
into my own house. I feel quite at home now. It is a definite state. Can
you imagine air that is very active instead of passive? Sort of like the
difference between still and boiling water. It is like that all around me
in this state, just vibrant of life. The state is definite and
recognizable and the same, without changing as it used to do. It is a
very definite place full of a different atmosphere, a different
consciousness than that I live in. It's a sense of being broken up and
diffused from a dense, fixed substance."

"They are giving me a very solemn warning," Betty announced one day, "I
was going too fast."

"The only wholesome method of entering our consciousness," the Invisibles
took her up in the changed voice I learned to distinguish as not her own
report, "is by careful, the most careful, disassociation with the body.
We guard its nervous reflexes. Irritation of them would be very harmful."

"All right now," Betty assured, "Let me go on. But I can't HELP getting
excited. I feel as though I were keeping my hand on the top of my head
and holding myself down. It's a much bigger, nicer place It's so real and
fascinating, so far above anything yet. I want to open my eyes; but they
won't let me."

"Blindness is concentration," said they.

There came a time at least when, apparently, from a mere perception of a
state of being, she progressed to a more definite realization of her
spiritual body.

After passing into the disassociated state and lying quite immobile for
some time, she suddenly remarked:

"I don't mind; I'm not afraid! My body is going. I'm dead; temporarily
I'm in my new body. I wonder if I can move? I'll try Oh, dear, it's so
puzzling! I'm going through something so queer! I'm struggling through
something new and confusing. It will clear up by and bye; it always does.
I don't know what to do. I'd like to be bold and start off, but I can't
work it. Guess I'll keep still and stop struggling . People are talking
over me, fussing over me just the way they do over a baby, and I haven't
the wit to respond . I don't dare let go to tell you about it. I can
wander around . I feel more like a wobble-headed baby than ever . It's
rather awful to be a baby again! This is a new phase; I don't
co-ordinate."

"In time, it takes time," the Invisible reassured her.

"Oh, this is going to be great," she said, "I can just dimly recognize
people Oh, I've got to stop. I don't know where I am nor what I am."

"It's hard at first, we know," said the Invisible.

"If I could only stop worrying about it, it would be all right. How can
I! " said Betty.

"Today is just a start," said they.

"It worries me to be a baby, when I'm grown up!" Betty complained, "I'm
so baffled and puzzled. It is entirely new. There is no doubt of it; I
passed through my earth babyhood in Just the same way, only now I am
dimly conscious of friends around me, and their efforts for me. But I
have no strength; it is curious to be so dull and feeble. A baby
struggles to consciousness the same way, trying to understand. Only, they
say, I'll grow faster.

"I'm feeling a little better already . They seem so sweet and old
fashioned and darling. They are so sweet and unmodern. They're all around
me trying to attract my attention, but I can't respond. I haven't got
enough life yet; their kind of life. It's nice to see them there so
close. I can't see them so as to recognize them; just a circle of people,
and they all feel different. They say I'd better go now. Now I'm seeping
back into myself, and they're helping me."

At first the mere recognition of this body in the other consciousness
seemed to be all. Then slowly Betty began to experience the simple first
functions of it.

"What a curious method of progression!" she said suddenly, "I don't walk;
that's a bodily method. I press forward, or something, by a kind of
intermittent force on my own volition. I go because I want to go. It is
smoother than spurts; but it is no more continuous than steps are. When
you think of it, it is a current of thought that makes your steps go;
well, here there's a current of thought that sends you forward,-waves of
pressure instead of steps. That is what steps are; only here you don't
have to have feet for it.

"Now I understand movement. It's the first thing they teach when you go
over."

"But I want so much to practice!" she expostulated after a pause, "It's
such fun to go around just pulsing yourself forward that way. Breathing
is a lot more difficult; I don't quite understand that. It is a much
wider fuller breath, I can see that; not the little, short, panting,
smothery thing we do now.

"Now go slowly. Let me follow step by step. This is fun! Lots of fun!"

"Suppose," suggested the Invisible, "you started experimentally pulsing
yourself around and you knew how to breathe big, almost aching breaths;
you'd soon begin to change, wouldn't you? You couldn't stay quite the
same, could you? After having so many different experiences? You have had
two already."

"I want to see what happens to me next; leave me alone," said Betty. "The
next thing I want These big almost aching breaths and this movement
combine into a feeling as if I were hunting for something. I'm groping
for something I want very much; very much. I want NOURISHMENT! It is an
instinct toward substance of growth. Curious, that sort of nourishment;
you don't seem to take it and give it up again. It is like atoms of
power. You add it to the sum of your substance. I don't know how you do
it. It seems to be a matter of the proportion. Proportions act on each
other in a creative way, the way foods do on cells. Oh, dear! I don't
know what I'm talking about."

"This goes on quite a while, this collecting substance," interposed the
Invisible, "Some day you'll get yourself assembled and begin to
function."

"Wouldn't that be fun!" cried Betty, "Wonder what I could do? If I could
come over and really function. Now sight. What is sight?" she speculated.
"Our sight is such a definitely limited thing, like our touch. It has a
radius. If you want to reach farther you move along: if you want to see
farther you move along. It seems to be here a question of your
candle-power, not of any definite radius (laughs). Horse power for the
physical, candlepower for the spiritual."

"Think of a room with one candle," said the Invisible, "Each one added
multiplies the strength of illumination and enables you to see more,
makes more reality visible. Think of people according to their
candle-power."

"Next time I'll try to co-ordinate and see what happens," Betty promised
herself. "I wonder if I could work them all together?"

"Go slow," warned the Invisible.

"This free-moving body has to be gradually acquired, like the writing and
direct voice," the Invisible told us some weeks later.

"It has wonderful possibilities when I grow accustomed to it," added
Betty. "I'm not used to this kind of consciousness. It's so free and
different a feeling; but I'm not enough settled in it or accustomed to it
to start out. It is too new and feeble and tender. I don't dare push
myself along yet I want to keep quiet for a while.

"Pretty soon I'll start out and radiate more strongly, pulse myself
along. I feel like a baby that must wonder how people move around so fast
and surely. I wonder how they dare do it.

"I can go quite fast when I make myself that channel. What makes the
channel that I've got to travel on? Some force growing within us that
overcomes, forces a way through the surrounding element. Then I renew it
and I go on again; that's the wave or pulse. But I don't move a step
unless I grow that impulse. It is all the same whether it is a wave
length or a will-power length or a radius of consciousness.

"Are you very fussy about it? Do you want it explained? Or can I go on
and just do it?"

"Go ahead and do it," said I.

Those excerpts from abundant but scattered records, as I said, give
glimpses rather than definite ideas. It is quite reasonable, if your mind
runs that way, to take it all symbolically. The statements are not
provable, and are credible only, as any non-provable statements are
credible, on the faith you have in the ones who make them. And perhaps it
would be well in this connection to repeat that-again if your mind runs
that way-you may logically ascribe the source of all this philosophy to
the subconscious, the tapping of the universal mind, or anything beside
those whom I call the Invisibles. The real point is, by whatever
mechanism it is produced, here is a philosophy of living that is
reasonable, logical, and that bears results. Such minutiae as the actual
nature of the spiritual body, or any other little glimpses we may get of
the details of the further consciousness are extras, frills, whose
interpretation does not affect the main argument. Take what appeals to
you.




CHAPTER XIV



Perception


1.

The spiritual body has, as we have said, senses of its own. They develop
with its development. They must not be sought for themselves. They are
not the specific object of our quest; and if they are made so, their
pursuit may become detrimental, or even dangerous,-a form of jag, like
taking drugs.

In a manner, I think, we should also beware of any ambition to duplicate
Betty's experience or powers. The idea is to fit us for a more enriching
life night here where we are.

But the development, and the use, in our own environment, of the
spiritual senses as concomitant to a more healthy spiritual body is a
legitimate reward. What, specifically, they are has not been described.
What the Invisibles call perception is one of them. That word, too, like
stability, they have used for lack of a better.

Its exact nature seems difficult to describe. Possibly it cannot be
readily understood until it is acquired, as is the case with many other
things even in this world. When first they approached it, their main care
was to make clear to us its distinction from intellectual understanding.

"We will not write you much," said they, almost at the first, "but we
will make you feel that we are there helping to discipline and strengthen
your spiritual mind. You in the world set great store by brains, which
are not to be despised, but which often offer an insurmountable obstacle
to the real mind, which is a kind of spiritual perception, given to the
uneducated sometimes more freely than to the hidebound, mapped-out, more
developed man. This is why the poor and humble so much oftener
communicate with us."

"I see what is important and what is not, mainly," you remember Betty
gave as her first impression of what was in reality the working of this
sense. At another time in describing an experience she gave me indirectly
another glimpse. She was trying to tell how she was meeting people in the
other consciousness.

"I dimly feel people all around me," she said, "as one feels people about
one in a darkened room. They are acting on each other chemically-just Eke
chemical action, only it is spiritual. We laugh at the auras but the idea
of them is quite real in a way. You go near a fire, and that has an aura
of heat; so has ice, of cold. With people it extends just a certain
radius around. When people approach within that radius these influences
intermingle and at once that chemical action begins. Barbed wire
entanglements are as nothing compared to the protection that could be
built in this way. It is not a selfish protection, either, but rather a
harmonizer that kills antagonism."

"I seem to become conscious over here," she reported again, "more by this
permeating than by the physical senses of sight and touch-they seem like
mud-turtle senses. This is a new sense; much finer. There is more
comprehension about it. Can't you imagine a state in which, instead of
looking at things or feeling of them, you would looks like growing into
them, growing around them. That's the reason they don't let me see yet.
Seeing is an inferior sense; they want me to develop the other first.
Don't you see, when we ask them to tell us what it's Eke over there, why
it's so hard to answer?"

This idea of growing into, growing around the thing perceived, so that
you are for the moment not only aware of, but a part of the essence of
that thing, was often insisted on. Apparently it states the process most
accurately of all, though many other analogies give glimpses of its
attributes.

"It is like the telephone or wireless," said the Invisibles another time.
"Suppose you could see through a telephone-could perceive with your ears
as you concentrated on distant places you wished to communicate with.
Does not that dimly give you an idea of entering a wider field? Of course
it would not be sight you would use-but we find it easier to name one of
your senses that most nearly approaches to perception. You can see only
what actually comes within the range of your retina; but supposing you
could see as you telephone, at a distance. Would not this eliminate your
boundaries enormously? You must believe that these boundaries can be
eliminated by means of this sense; that it can bring a clear sight and
sound of reality. In dealing with carnate and discarnate it can wipe out
the line of division, blend the two. Speech with fellow men can carry by
means of this; when tuned to this vibration it will do far more than the
words you utter.

"You have experienced this in knowing what a man really means or is. This
is the law of that fact, presented to you to utilize."

"It's very hard to get that inward seeing-over-the-telephone idea,"
commented Betty. "Seems to be a direct, unobstructed sort of force that
carries intelligence from one to the other. Before, it always had to keep
going through various filters and reducers and transformers to change its
force and adapt it. Now it's going to come sliding over! But you've got
to stay up there, above the earthly senses. If you get back into your
senses, it's going to go right over your head."

"See if I get a glimpse," I interposed. "As I understand it, in order to
get this, a man has first of all to rise to your level."

"The level above your consciousness; not our level," disclaimed the
Invisible.

"They're hunting to find concrete cases," said Betty. "It Seems to be in
the army, or perhaps in Africa-your dealing with some of the men; how you
know when to jump them, and when to go light on the offense. It seems to
be a matter of the amount of integrity they can register on the silent
gauge-it's very hard to say. That is what you feel a man's integrity by,
no matter what he says; and makes you doubt another no matter what he
does. That is an example of this new sense."

"We don't want to confuse you too much today with elaborate
explanations," warned the Invisible, "You are always so eager.
Concentrate and economize your attention on a single aspect until enough
of it comes to you through this sense to explain itself."

"You see," interposed Betty, "they give you an idea, and you can think
about it a little, and then all the time you are not thinking about it,
it is filling out. It is a lot easier than a lot of little discussions."

"When you say something to a person," they continued, "is it the words
that actually influence him, or is it the current your thought travels
on, the force that comes out of you and takes it to him? Some people's
words mean so little, and the same words from other people mean so much.
That is an example of a diluted form."

"If while you are talking to him," Betty took it up, "you can unbatten
your hatches or just get above your senses, tap this thing, you can say
all kinds of things silently to him. He will know that you like him or
sympathize with him or want to uphold him in what he is doing. I told you
how when we meet over here we mingle in some sort of way. That is how
sometimes we can mingle here. When in the world we catch each other's
eyes and laugh at the same joke is a simple example. It is the opposite
of knocking your shells together like two old tortoises meeting."

"It isn't very clear yet," confessed the Invisible, "but never mind about
your clarity of perception of it. That necessarily comes after you have
maintained conditions for a time long enough to establish it."

Before leaving this subject of perception one more point must be
emphasized: the necessity for acquiring its use, not merely in the
secondary state which Betty used for experimentation, but in full
possession of our normal consciousness.

"Each thing I acquire, like perception," stated Betty, "I have to bring
down with me with great effort; and I have to naturalize it, transplant
it, so that it becomes an earthful thing. I have to arrange so that I
don't have to get into any supernatural state to perceive and use it."

"We are so anxious to make an impression on you with this idea," added
the Invisible, "that we will give you nothing else today. Perception is
not to occur merely in a solitary or trance-like condition; it is to
enter your everyday workaday world as soon as possible."


2.

An excellent example of the working of this spiritual sense in everyday
life is the way a creative artist goes at his job. How does he get his
basic idea? If he is a man of insight, he will freely acknowledge that it
is not by working his intellect. That comes later; when he assembles and
arranges his materials. But the inception is something different. Things
come to him.

His method of encouraging things to come to him varies according to his
temperament. He may get them through an association with nature. Or
through listening to music. Or from staring at a blank wall. Or he wakes
up with them after a good night's sleep. A basic idea-or inspiration;
only I am afraid of that word's connotations-must derive from this
subconscious source. If it is an intellect thing; synthesized;
constructed; then you have your hack writer for the "pulps," or your
mill-run painter of kind-faced cows or what-not, or your tin-pan-alley
maker of tunes.

The same principle applies with the inventor; with the research
scientist; with the creative business man. Such a man studies his problem
intellectually; he assembles as much background as possible. In other
words, he gets together his materials. Sometimes-perhaps most often-he
worries away at them with his intellectual teeth. But only rarely does he
"figure out" a solution to anything that is new in a creative sense. That
comes to him "in a flash"; and often when he is absorbed in something
trivial and unrelated-like shaving. If you question him, he will probably
say he had a hunch; a bright idea struck him all at once. But he did not
actually THINK IT OUT. Afterwards he will, undoubtedly, think out the
details. That is what the intellect is for.

This is inspiration. According to the Invisibles it is a working of
perception; in their definition one of the senses of the spiritual body.
There are other routes by which it may reach one. But they are cruder,
less reliable, and may in certain circumstances become actually
dangerous. Perception can be developed, with security. It will then
always direct dependably.

Its working is most clearly describable in creative work, but its
usefulness applies to all problems of life. When we are hopelessly
confused and no amount of study brings a solution, if then we but still
our thoughts and LISTEN, we will instantly KNOW in our heart of hearts
what course to follow. And the faculty that speaks to us then is
perception.

Naturally a deliberate and conscious use of this sense is the surest.
Nevertheless, in even the man who is the least bit developed, it is
always to some extent in action. Generally he is unaware of it; or
perhaps he ignores it as a "mere emotional reaction," if he is of the
intellectual type. But it is capable of dependence as practical guidance.

"Consider the use of your body." said the Invisibles. "It tells you when
you are hungry, and when you are thirsty, and when you are hot or cold
and also what to do to remedy it. Your physical senses take you through
physical life pretty well.

"In the same way your spiritual sense, once developed, has a hunger for
service, a thirst for harmony, a perception of the heat and cold of human
hearts. And it automatically fulfills its function of giving and
maintaining spiritual life, just as the physical senses automatically
fulfill their functions."

"The spiritual sense," they went on later, "is our modeling sense. It
dictates our needs for rounded, constructive, progressive existence, just
as our appetites, when unperverted, dictate the needs of our bodies. If
you leave that side of you undeveloped you get out of shape; you lose the
power of harmonizing. You have no instinct by which to apprehend your
needs; you grasp almost at random; your being becomes diffused,
scattered, instead of whole. Your component parts are pulling at random,
instead of together as a good team should.

"It is like a pharmacist's shop: there are all kinds of spiritual
ingredients. If you mix them in the proper proportion, they begin
working; without that mixing they do not work. There is truth in them,
yes; but they do not work because they do not bear the right relation,
possess the proper proportion, the right mixture."

At best we use this faculty in a spasmodic and fragmentary manner. But
eventually, we were told, in the long last of evolution, all of life will
be brought within its control!

An animal dwells in his equipment of instinct, sensation, emotion and
habit; with fragmentary incursions into an adumbrated faculty of reason.
Man uses these also; but he has moved the center of his being more into
the mental field, so that, as he develops, more and more intellect
dominates his life.

But reason is not the end of the line. Beyond it lies perception. And,
again as he develops, more and more will he transfer control, until
eventually it will hold in his life the same dominant position he now
accords to intellect.

This thought, we are told, is not fantastic-as an ultimate possibility.
Probably we, as individuals, in this present life, shall not reach any
such attainment. But how many of us have got even as far as complete
intellectual control? However, we can move along that path. We can
increase, little by little, our use of perception in the management of
our daily affairs. And if we do so easily, normally,  without forcing,
without strain, we may astonish ourselves. Mistakes? Of course! But, the
Invisibles pertinently reminded us, what is our batting average of
correct decisions of pure intellect?




CHAPTER XV



Impetus


1.

The force that carries you along they called impetus. Impetus you
originate within yourself. It is based on desire.

You get nowhere at all unless you desire. You do not move your little
finger unless you have a definite wish to do so; you do not swallow,
look, shift position, speak, understand, perform any activity whatever,
physical or mental, unless you have first sent out from within yourself a
self-originated impulse that starts the machinery. The force used, the
mechanism employed may be altogether an outside thing. It is possible for
a child's hand on a lever to accomplish mighty results. But the origin of
it all is DESIRE for something, on the part of one man or many. That is
the thing that is born within the human being, mysteriously, out of
nothing.

Now according to this philosophy every desire, when it is a definite
outgoing desire, produces an impetus. This is true whether or not that
desire produces any apparent effect. Before it can result in action it
may be inhibited, or it may encounter opposing forces that nullify it.
But in the substance of thought-an idea we have examined-an impetus is
produced-that proceeds on in its own direction and according to its own
laws until its force is exhausted or until it is destroyed or deflected
by other influences. It might be likened to a child's mechanical toy that
runs when you place it on the floor, until the power of its mainspring is
exhausted: or to the ripples from a stone cast into water. The strength
and vitality of that impetus depend on the intensity and vitality of the
desire and the clarity of the perception.

That proposition, then, is simple enough in its initial statement. In its
ultimate results it becomes complicated beyond present human
understanding. The billions of crosscurrents thus set up of impetuses,
old and nearly spent or new and vigorous; feeble in their inception or
powerful; solitary or united; running with or counter to one another,
make for a bewildering tangle. The ultimate effect is probably under some
law, but that law we do not at present know. Still, it is not difficult
to visualize the rise and fall of movements, ideals, ambitions, and the
fate of dynasties and races if we think of the impetuses great and small
started on their way by the desires great and small, collective and
individual, earnest or ephemeral that arise in the breasts of men.


2.

Each person has his own individual spiritual impetus which he makes from
whatever genuine aspirations and desires he may possess. "The will" they
told us, trying to define this out-reaching desire that results in
impetus, "is separate from either the mind or the brain. It is the
driving force of the being, that makes you decide for of against. It is
what you build with. It is the conscious part of your soul. Will is a
poor name for it, but we have no better. You measure growth against it as
you measure a child backed against a door. It is like a number you are
labeled with, what you amount to, your measure." By this inner and
individual thing, that is yours personally and can be set in motion by no
one else, you build your personal impetus. "You get yourself a certain
individual power formula: it produces a certain result. That is impetus.
Unless something happens to stop that impetus or deflect it, it will
carry you along its appointed route until its force is spent."

Thus a very large percentage of your present life is made up of unspent
impetus brought into being by the desires of your past life. Only a small
percent is fresh impetus. In that fashion you are increasingly a slave of
your past, unless by new and strong desire you create new impetus that
shall override the old.

"But," say they, "you can change the formula you have made for yourself.
The development quality it can put forth in new impetus is exactly
according to the inspiration with which you combine it."


3.

Therein lies man's control over what he calls destiny.

"Destiny," they define it, "is the spending of impetus unarrested by
spiritual consciousness."

This was rather too condensed a statement to be readily understood.

"Most people," they went on, "travel along logical routes of action, on
half spent impetus. Unless deflected by some effort of the spiritual
consciousness they continue to the logical end of that impetus. To that
extent they are destined to a certain thing."

"I will explain that," put in Betty, as often happened when I was
puzzled, "Most people walk alone, not coupled to any divine contact,
travelling on impetus. They collect and set in motion certain qualities.
These run their courses to their natural conclusions, good or bad. They
are like machinery that runs until the gasoline gives out; that is, the
impetus. They are chug-chugging all around us, some nearly run down, some
just standing. You can see Just where they are going if let alone. On the
other hand, if you can apply the complementary force-which is divine
regulation, or inspiration, or consciousness,-you can check that
machinery and turn it in quite another direction. Or you can keep it
going in its direction, without running down. That's where your selective
powers come in.

"It is very nice. In that way you can help other people. All Fate,
Kismet, Allah's will-be-done, is just this passive spending of impetus.
It looks as though one larger more vitalized contact could veto another
It is very complicated in people's lives."

That is not all of destiny, all of free will by a great deal. The subject
is too complicated to go further with. But it is a glimpse: and it shows
how man can master his destiny by capturing his soul; and points how we
might help others.




CHAPTER XVI



Constructive Prayer


The inception, and the constant revision of one's impetus, is one of the
important jobs in life. We are broadcasting even with our most secret
thoughts and desires. We are accountable for what we send out. Our desire
does not die in our breasts. It goes out as something we have launched,
to run straight ahead on its appointed course until the force of its
projection is exhausted, or until it meets a more powerful or deflecting
force. It may be going and fulfilling its destiny long after we have
forgotten it. That is part of our responsibility: to send out, as far as
human frailty will permit, only wholesome impetus into the intricate
crosscurrents of world life.

At that point we touch the subject of individual responsibility, into
which we will go more fully when certain other needed concepts are
attained. For the moment we will leave it.

Now of course impetus is being started all about us at every split second
of the day. It is part of the automatic function of life, just as is
spiritual contact. Without the one there can be no movement, no action in
the world at all: without the other there could be no continued good
thing. They must function, just as the heart must function, or life
ceases. But that is not to say that in the present state of things they
function easily or well, nor that they cannot to greater advantage be
directed consciously. We have seen that, as respects spiritual contact,
our performance is inefficient. As respects the production of impetus,
also, our sources are haphazard.

The deliberate daily production of individual impetus comes, as we have
hinted, from the individual "formula" which we can take to mean, roughly,
the character. This varies with each. One may lack stability, another
must overcome inertia, and so on. The formula carried into practice
produces impetus. If this impetus is to be conscious and intelligent, we
must know our lacks and govern ourselves accordingly. That much, I think,
is clear. But how are we to arrive at an adequate knowledge of these
lacks and an effective desire to fill them?

In discussing that we are fairly forced to use an ecclesiastical word
whose connotations have so thickly overspread the meaning we wish to
convey as to make it almost useless. Yet there is no other. I refer to
the word prayer.

Please discard from your mind all stilted conventional meaning it may
have for you now. It has become largely, and to many, a childhood
ceremony almost abandoned as life engulfs us; to others an unconvincing
act; a petition for favors from an overlord; a ritual; a paean of
personal praise. Forget all that. Start over again without preconception.
Let the Invisibles have the word "free and unsullied," as they expressed
it to the author of THE SEVEN PURPOSES.

Next, as the first contribution to its meaning, assemble under it all
that you have come to understand as the process of seeking spiritual
contact and permeation. This process constitutes the first step in ALL
constructive prayer. "In that phase," said the Invisible, "it is an
assembling and offering up of your best self for union with the
Overstrength. Only when this has been made habitual are we ready to
proceed further.

"It is only by the strength of this contact that you gain courage for the
second step; to plumb the depths and know yourself. It is the inspiration
that quickens your perception. You cannot plunge all at once into a
knowledge of your spiritual lacks, because that MUST come gradually."

"These two levels of prayer we must learn to perceive and use before they
can give us more," Betty ended.

When the subject of prayer was first presented to us as such, the first
step-the spiritual contact step-was re-expressed in terms which it might
be illuminating to quote here. In essence, they told us, it is merely a
spiritual association approached with human warmth of desire; and amounts
in the long run to the great lifelong companionship.

"I don't understand that," said Betty," I'll review it."

"I approach divine companionship in prayer as I reach for warm
friendship," she went on after a pause, "only with greater expectation."

Then, as often, they showed her a picture; a statue of a figure poised
for flight, as she described it, " a beautiful figure, more beautiful
than the Winged Victory."

"It is so beautiful," she said. "The head is tip and thrown back.
Deliciously free! I want to start out that way, too, with my head thrown
back, in faith, facing the unknown! I want to be poised like that, too!"

That was all for the first day. A little later the subject was taken up
again, and they repeated in this new terminology the old warning against
the enfeebling type of relaxation, the letting go all holds and waiting
to be lifted up. It cannot be repeated too often.

"Weak prayer does not fulfill its part because it just calls down,
instead of rising to meet. This is still all part of the chemistry of
prayer. You can conceive a spiritual being by the strength of your direct
desire for contact. You do it by calling for spiritual companionship or
association. It amounts to very little unless something arises within you
to enlarge your capacity to receive it and blend with it. Something
within you must rise continually to meet the spiritual association. You
cannot just wait for it to come to you."

So much for the first step of constructive prayer: that of spiritual
contact and permeation, the reaching for the heights. Now let us consider
further what was told us of the second: that of plumbing the depths.

"Prayer is the projection of your spiritual being, heart and soul," they
defined, "It is the conscious assembling of your highest self. In
offering up the spirit, you lay bare your own soul. It is the only way
you can recognize your own proportions. You face the sum total of
yourself. It pierces all your coverings and trappings as an X-ray pierces
the body. There is a terrible reality to it. This is its zone of action,
this compulsion to face your naked soul. "From dread of this people use
only the surface of prayer.

"But there is no discouragement with this facing (of one's naked soul);
no discouragement. Even mortification is submerged in eagerness to
reconstruct and harmonize. That is the big feeling prayer gives you. You
must plumb the depths of prayer down to your timid soul in order to gain
impetus.

"Under the inspiration of prayer each one of us recognizes the WHOLENESS
necessary to spiritual harmony. In proportion as he lacks is the urge to
acquire the wholeness he perceives."

"It seems," interpreted Betty, "to be a sort of chemical affinity among
the parts that should make up each person's wholeness. Therefore, as soon
as spiritual perception is started a tremendous attracting power is set
in motion, and you begin to assemble yourself. In that way the action of
prayer, even spasmodic prayer, does good."

"But persisted in," added the Invisible, "it is the great workshop of the
soul."

"The assembling cannot all be done at once, you see; so they call it the
workshop."

"Any level of prayer is worth while," went on the Invisible, "But for the
strongest reaction you must plumb the depths. You must always, in
anything, plumb the depths before you are permitted to go on to the
heights."

"Yesterday my beautiful statue of faith," said Betty, "so eager for
released action; and I didn't know why it was held back. It was held back
for today's perception of the depth of self-truth.

" That's queer! I can't get to the top again at all! They say, until I
can visualize my needs, I am bogged down. There is no hurrying over this;
got to stay right here until I can see my naked soul and start my
impetus. I can't start it until I see myself, my fragmentary self. It is
very hard to do; I am USED to myself."

"Then this constructive prayer consists in the visualizing of spiritual
needs?" I asked.

"No," was the reply. "It's a visualizing of spiritual lacks rather than
needs."

"If you need a thing, you lack it." I objected to the curious
distinction.

"You don't gain the same impetus from one as from the other," they
answered. "A mere need does not create a vacuum that sucks in; it doesn't
set the same force in action."

"Distinction still not clear," said I, glimpsing that it was an effort to
get a vital word.

"A lack looks like a hole," Betty helped us, "a sort of physical thing
that you fill up with a rush, once you create it by recognition. A need
is a kind of mentally desirable thing-not a big elemental thing. The
creation by visualization or recognition of spiritual lacks is the depth
we talked of."

Constructive prayer, then, considered in its entirety, makes us aware of
these lacks. From this awareness springs that defined, understanding
impetus which thenceforward must guide our destiny.

In conclusion it might be inspiring to quote an example of approach to
constructive prayer as reported one day by Betty.

"It's a beautiful form, a grand rhythm. In utter obliviousness of
everything else I fling myself, abandon myself to one collective thought,
the beauty of a physical world. I sweep it whole right into my heart,
everything, the little Alpine flowers on Kearsage top, the undersea
gardens, the desert bloom, the frost crystals, the world of the
magnifying glass, the stars-all the physical universe. The manifestation
of overpowering love and intelligence,-I gather them all in my own great
rush of worship. It's an offering, a concentration of my life's
experience returning to its source. Once spent, I lie still and quietly
life recharged filters back to me, recharged with vitality, strength and
eagerness to take my part, to be victorious with humility, conscious of
the immensity of the scheme. When the renewed life flows back into me my
great effort is to retain it, to contain it all in all, for the force of
the renewed life must be converted into world activity."




CHAPTER XVII



Summary


1.

We have at last come to a breathing space or pause before taking up the
second aspect of our teaching by the Invisibles. All that has gone
before, you have noticed, has dealt with our relations to ourselves. Next
we were called upon to examine our relations with the world outside
ourselves. Before we do so it might be a good idea to summarize in very
brief review.


2.

We are out of proportion: the spiritual and the material do not bear to
each other the harmonious proportion. This is a materialistic age. We are
not in possession of the fullness of life.

We gain our proper proportions by achieving spiritual contact and
stabilizing it, in the sense that it becomes a function of our daily
lives, like eating or sleeping.

This stabilized wider consciousness gradually develops in us a spiritual
body whose senses advise us of our needs.

We gain our impetus to attain this wider consciousness from desire.
Desire is best regulated by this same habitual spiritual association. By
the strength of this contact we quicken and develop a perception which
gives us strength and courage of ourselves and discernment of our
spiritual lacks, the things we haven't got; as distinct from spiritual
needs, the ordinary sustenance of life.

The recognition of these lacks brings an understanding desire for
wholeness. From this enlightened desire comes our individual impetus.


3.

Supplementing this skeleton of the teaching itself, it might be as well
to pass on two bits of practical advice given us by the Invisibles.

The first of these is that as soon as we have got the machinery working
we should not continue to emphasize its details. The small complicated
devices-relaxation, elimination, aspiration, etc.-should be simplified
into an ATTITUDE OF MIND.

"All this should become a subordinate machinery, like a digestive tract.
You direct it from above by a selection of what is to feed it. Up to this
point all has been spiritually organic, making something that will
function. You need to pay just the attention to it to keep it running
smoothly. You should now use your perception or spiritual intelligence.
Blend your ideas. Instead of being little pointed efforts, little
mountain-peak things, rub them together in a mass, without detail. It
makes a shaded band colored with the idea of prayer and capacity which
generates the force to act on your physical world. That shaded band is
the coloring of your mind; but do not particularize on it.

Forget the technique of it, and have it merely as the coloring of your
thought. By making this a coloring of the mind you do it without thinking
of how you do it. Your attention is freed for something else."

Nevertheless it should not be forgotten for a moment that once in a while
first steps must be consciously repeated. They should by now be more or
less automatic, but sometimes they need thought. The steps of our feet
are largely automatic; yet we take thought to lift them high when we
cross ploughed land.

The second pointer is, that if we start in on this at all, we are
enlisted for the duration. We cannot make up our minds that we have done
enough, and quit.

"It is a funny thing," observed Betty, apropos of this, "but you can't do
that; you've got to keep going when once you start. It's as if you were
to decide that your heart had beat long enough, and you thought you'd
stop it awhile."

And we must continually "make it so"; constantly animate, vitalize what
we have acquired. We always come back to that. Unless it is alive it is
not valuable even as a museum specimen.

"Keep fresh and vital what you have already received," the Invisibles
told us, "Do not let it lapse to a mere collector's interest. YOUR
SUCCESS IS MEASURED SOLELY BY YOUR VITALIZING QUALITY. The attitude of
mind in keeping vitalized is to keep moving, not to let yourself get
static" And Betty added: "They showed a picture, a bird over a blue
ocean, but he did not try to light on it, to stop moving-he knew better."


4.

Rounding out the whole is an aspect of promise and hope.

The spiritual body, we are assured, is indestructible. It may be, as
Betty saw it, crippled, embryonic, incomplete; but such as it is, it
endures. Furthermore, whatever we may add to it in the way of development
is an everlasting possession. We may go our ways deliberately blind,
deliberately neglectful, willfully procrastinating, self centered, even
antagonistic. These things may form over our real selves a crust that
will stop growth. They may act on us, and on others about us, in
unguessed ways through long vistas of time. Their effects we will have to
liquidate, with compound interest. Their iron construction we will have
to dissolve before again we can expand. But they cannot destroy. Whatever
of the spiritual body is in ourselves-even in crudest embryo-is ours
forever, on which sometime or other, when we have resolved ourselves
free, we shall build.





PART II

OUR RELATIONS WITH THE WORLD WITHOUT




CHAPTER XVIII



Levels


We may define experience, for our present purpose, as our principal
points of contact in our meetings with the outside world. This experience
is the raw material that life offers; but what we make of it is strictly
up to us. If we handle it well we make something fine, and our advance is
speeded on the road to progress. So it is a good thing to know how to
meet experience.

Furthermore, the degree of our ability to deal with it is a pretty good
indicator of how far we have already travelled. For we have by no means
all come the same distance. In evolution we do not advance in company
front, but string out irregularly like a crowd going to a ball game.

"You all live together on earth at different levels-levels of
consciousness, we mean," the Invisible expressed this. "Certain
prerogatives pertain to each level of capacity. Your voluntary capacity,
or the level you attain, contains certain growths, senses or prerogatives
peculiar to that element, altitude, substance or level. This of yours is
the level of dawning perception."
In the course of our development, they went on, we progress from one
level to another, like going up stairs. And each step must be lived out
to the full before we can go on to the next.

"The only way you go from one level to another," said they, "is to get
your breadth in this level. When height has been reached, sufficient
breadth in proportion must be gained. It is like layers. You must grow to
the first layer, fill out all its breadth, before you can lay another
over it.

"And when you reach a level, you contain, AND ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR, all
below that level. Therefore you cannot skip a grade. If you did not go
through the whole process, you could not contain all the levels below
you."

There was a pause while Betty explored.

"I was on a higher level," she reported at last. "I travelled
horizontally, but I seemed to contain sympathetically, consciously, all
that was below me that I had come through. I contained them in a curious
way, as though I was responsible for them. They were all part of me in
some humanly magnetic way."

"The responsibilities of each level must be understood," said they, "or
you are not partakers of the life of that level."

This system of levels apparently is not confined to life as we know it.
Beyond the range of our ordinary human consciousness extends another
region, likewise with levels of awareness.

"The highest level there," they explained, "connects with the lowest
level here."

This is the region into which Betty has been led-the "higher level" of
which she speaks. And this is the level which we enter when we reach for
spiritual contact. In fact the Invisible often spoke of contact as
"centering the consciousness in the level above."

"This meeting ground of the two consciousnesses is not only feasible, but
desirable; strengthening to all contiguous life," said they. "Constantly
try to overrun and merge at the boundaries. This union of the borderlands
is a great and satisfying achievement."

In the course of our development, they went on, we can expect to progress
farther and farther into these upper regions. But at first we must be
content to establish ourselves on the threshold. Early in the game Betty
was warned against trying to push ahead too far and too fast. The
elevation already gained must be made sure of before new heights are
attempted.

"It can no longer be an upward growth," said they one day, "except as you
condense and assimilate each phase into structure which penetrates to the
next range of vision."

"That doesn't make sense," complained Betty, "but I know, and they always
elaborate later. Yes, they say they will."

"You have been holding your thoughts and aspirations into a kind of
shaft, penetrating, rising above your normal restricted-self senses,"
they continued. "Now, having attained a certain degree of light and
freedom, you must, like a tree, begin the expansion and utilization. But
do not complicate your struggles at present by trying to get a sequence
further than you have attained. Merely occupy yourself with expanding to
your greatest breadth of acute consciousness."

This is only a glimpse of how evolution proceeds on its way; but it is a
boundary-eliminating glimpse. First step up: then expand to occupy the
whole area to which that step has raised you.




CHAPTER XIX



Assimilation


1. UNFINISHED BUSINESS.

The tremendous importance of filling out our levels efficiently was
brought home to us in a variety of ways. At one period, though we
continued to sit together, no spoken teaching was given. I ventured to
ask what we were supposed to be doing.

"You are engaged at present in spiritual absorption of yourself," the
Invisibles replied.

"Could you elaborate?" I suggested.

"There still remains in you a stronghold of earth inertia which must be
overcome before we can proceed freely and satisfactorily," said they.
"This barrier is in the nature of a wall built of years of depositing
weighty things that should have been disembodied by spiritual
application. Everybody builds this wall. It must be disembodied before we
can proceed, or you will be continually returning to it. It is a kind of
a world dump of unassimilated experiences, merely recognized mentally,
but not lived up to."

This seemed to me an illuminating thought as to our relations with
life-that the experiences we encounter must be lived out and assimilated.
If they are not, they become, as in the case of physical digestion, an
actual clog and detriment, a source of spiritual ill-health. Here was an
incentive to meet life squarely, without dodging.

"I want to ask them how to recognize these low-order unvitalized-progress
things," said Betty. "Oh, that's the searchlight they spoke of a time
ago. You keep your spiritual powers so active that you can illumine
earthly things and so discern true character. We can all get it if we
want it.

"You can dimly feel how it would go on and on. First you'd be able to
clean up or dispel the simple obvious obstructions. There is no
particularly unhealthy material. It is not so much diseased as it is
unawakened or of a lower order, all this earth material. Wait, this is so
vague. You can dissolve it with a strong infusion of life or spiritual
force so that it isn't so dead and dense. That's the first step, these
obvious things.

"As you go on-I can't see very well-but as you go on you could always be
rearranging better and better . That would be creation. I'd better not go
any farther; it's too difficult."

At another time the Invisibles gave us a striking symbol to illustrate
how we should go about this absorption.

"You must absorb with the spirit all that you call into being with your
attention," they warned us. "You cannot leave unabsorbed stuff lying
around. You must stay and fix it."

"I'm always going through something that drags on me and tries to pull me
back," complained Betty, "or points out interesting things and tries to
deflect my attention. It is diabolically ingenious in knowing my
interests and weaknesses. It is my own unabsorbed self.

"Funny," she continued after a few moments, "they show me the statue of
Laocoon and the snakes.

"Your own emanations and misconceptions, fostered by an effortless,
miasmatic sort of spiritual lassitude, create these snakes until they
hold you fast. You could absorb them by spiritual strength; but you
don't. Just as your blood is oxygenated and destroys poisons.

"Thus you are held fast by your own misconceptions. What can be done?

"You must stop thinking about the snakes and reach out, all your
attention concentrated on leaving your body to the snakes and freeing
your spirit. Gradually, after going over it again and again and again-for
you cannot hold it very long at first-and by persistently renewing the
spiritual contact, gradually that contact will be so strong that it will
react on the body. Then you will begin to absorb. The permeation, the
transmutation will start.

"The snakes lose their vitality. You are stepping on them, freeing an arm
to pull them off. But if you start thinking about them much it livens:
them up! Your attention must be kept on the other contact. Stretch your
arms and make your plan and take care they stay under your feet."


2. THE DISSOLVING OF SPIRITUAL FORCE.

We ingest experience as the sustaining nutriment of life. That nutriment
is assimilated as food is assimilated by the body. By means of it we are
empowered to fill out one level of consciousness so that we may rise to
the next. Unassimilated, it, again like food, is a lump in the throat, a
clog, a detriment, a disturbing thing. In one respect however, the
analogy breaks down. Unlike the automatism of absorption by digestion,
this process may be subject to intelligence. It goes on, whether we
realize it or not, but it goes on much surer and faster if we use that
intelligence.

At first glance it might seem again to strain analogy to postulate a
spiritual gastric juice. And yet the thing we have been reaching for in
what we have called permeation, or contact, is in a way just that. Over
and over, from the very start, such a concept was impressed on us. At
first we took it as a figure of speech, but later discovered that it was
meant to be taken literally.

"It is a matter-of-fact law," said Betty positively. "I don't see
anything 'psychic' about it. I am just studying the law; and little by
little I am demonstrating. The biggest thing you can study is this, and
how much of it you can take. I lie here and strive according to the poor
little rules I have discovered already, and something like slight
chemical change takes place."

"These forces we call spirit dissolve and enter in if they have a
chance," she said another time. "They change the particles and penetrate
and establish connection. That's what they do to me. It's so easy to
see-and so hard to tell! The world is full of chemical changes like
that-it's the same in the spirit world. I'm permeated now, and you are
not. That's the reason you look so hard to me. I see so clearly the
action of this thing I am trying to understand. I know the secret of
it-it's the same old thing: keep in touch, keep it near us all the time.
It works when we are not thinking of it if we will only think of it once
in a while. Reach out and touch it, and it stays with you-that's the
secret. I'm looking at it now, a great big sea of spirit; and some are
wearing diving suits and it cannot touch them, and others are swimming
around in it and are so happy."

This was early in the experience, when these things were conveyed in
simple pictorial forms. Here is another:

"I am pushing with great strength and purpose, tremendous force," Betty
reported. "But it is not destructive force-constructive force. There is a
dense mass before me; ordinarily I would say it was impenetrable. I
couldn't get through. I'd stop where I was. But I can get through by
means of this spiritual force. It finds the little channels between and
widens them. Yes, I know: it's the world. I am going through what looks
like the impervious world of matter.

"It is very curious how that force works between the atoms until it makes
a way. It is most interesting to watch that. Those atoms couldn't
possibly be packed any tighter, and there is no room to push them out of
the way. But I start working among the little interstices between them
until I have widened them and made a way through; and then somehow I
absorb the matter. It is like a saturated solution of matter in spirit; I
take up what I have strength for. Then I come to a stop until I gain more
strength. The absorbing power of the spirit transmutes. That is the way
the whole world will be absorbed some day."

"I am gradually getting hold of this spiritual substance," Betty ventured
another time. "When you have acquired a little of it, it seems to have
definite uses you can put it to. That's what they are trying to get over.
A consuming power. Things seem to disappear under it, like ice under the
sun. It seems as though no material thing can stand long against it. It
gives you the feeling that if you had enough of it, and you were behind
an iron or a concrete door, the thing would-that sounds queer-but it
becomes so recharged or vitalized that it seems to have dissolved into
its component parts. Could that be done to iron or concrete? Why, it
looks that way!

"This wonderful transmuting, absorbing substance is what you set in
action by spiritual contact. Once set in action, you cannot stop it. It
is bound to act, to consume. The more faith you have in it, the more
powerful it is. It would be terrible were it not used for good."

"Oh, well, you could never fully utilize this power until you had first
destroyed all your own earth conventions and limitations. If they were
really destroyed, so they could not dilute with doubt, then you could
utilize the full power of the spirit. That is what it is to be made in
the Image. You see, we really were made in the Image, but we've got to
earn, to deserve our heritage."

"One of the most useful things to hang onto for spiritual imagination
purposes," supplemented the Invisibles, "is that dissolving power of
spirit on the iron and concrete.

The world is being created over and over again, each time with a greater
and greater spiritual infusion. That is progress. At last it will
absorbed by the spirit."

"If you once get that idea," Betty concluded, "you can start absorbing
things. It makes the whole solid world soluble in spirit. To you it looks
as though nothing could destroy Mount Diabolo, but from here it seems as
though sufficient spiritual power could actually dissolve it.

"And far beyond, I can dimly sense the power to put together again."

That was an inspiring glimpse, the working over and over of stubborn
material, as a sculptor kneads his clay, until it becomes through
creation and re-creation more and more capable of expressing the spirit.
That, as they said, is progress; the power to dissolve and put together
again. And it applies, apparently, even to our physical bodies.

"Spirit dissolves the natural so curiously!" commented Betty one time.
"Its substance seems to have a dematerializing effect on the body-it gets
not so solid, more flexible. It makes it easy to be acted on by the
thought. It's the first step in something, the preparatory work."

Several days later in the midst of other work she unexpectedly returned
to the subject.

"There must be some definite relation you should have with your body,"
she exclaimed, puzzled. "The outside alliance is your real life."

After the usual pause when such a point is raised, she resumed:

"I am living in a body. I must fill the body until it becomes just a thin
clothing for the spirit. The bodily self is produced by bodily
limitations. As soon as you know your spiritual self, you can begin
absorbing your bodily self. You do not destroy these walls; you must have
them; they become translucent so you can shine through them. Nor is it a
development of the body, for it does not bring

it upward, but reduces it by the contact of spirit. It is something of
the oil-on-paper idea. That makes paper translucent. Thus at the last it
comes again to relaxing the bodily self, but filling with the spiritual
self."

The more we succeed in doing this, the less resistance there will be to
our progress. In her super-physical development this was symbolized to
Betty.

"Somehow I've worn thin a dense material that has always been around me
and kept me in a little narrow space," she announced one day. "And now I
have only to keep on stretching myself and pushing through the thin
stuff, the very slight resistance. I can advance through this substance
with very little effort, like a tide coming in, feeling its way up the
shore. I can spread that way, comprehending, having contact, advancing.
It is endless, just endless!"


3. THE GENERAL ANSWER.

This is a wonderful, a thrilling picture. But for most of us it is
undeniably of the future, at least in its completeness. We must pass
through many intervening stages be fore we shall attain such freedom and
such power. Nevertheless at whatever stage we may be the formula for
advancement remains the same. Experience must be met and assimilated in
order that we may fill out our level and proceed to the next. "It is only
by fulfilling the laws of each step that this can be done. And that means
just living them naturally, with as much light, bigness of heart,
expansion, as you can-doing your best and pushing on."

And in this task our most effective aid is the power we gain from
spiritual contact. Sometimes we will get this directly through our own
conscious efforts; sometimes indirectly through association and
observation. But always it remains the vital factor in our progress; the
one most worth fostering.

"Choose the companionship of inspiration wherever it feeds and
nourishes," advised the Invisibles, "Whether in the gift of dead poets or
the sweating toil of living workers. Outside your hours of duty refresh
and stimulate your thought chambers by constantly associating yourself
with the aristocracy of the spirit wherever you can recognize it. There
is always such a drag to the commonplace, such a vortex of it. You must
continually guard yourself against it if you are going to maintain
yourself above it. I am not saying there is anything wrong about it: I am
only saying it is crowded. Our restricted imaginations, our
semi-paralyzed wills, our spasmodic instead of habitual acknowledgement
of the unknown-by all these we keep ourselves commonplace."

"Oh, yes," put in Betty. "I remember the spiritually provincial, of
course. I hadn't thought of that for a long time. They are arousing my
ambition to travel beyond the commonplace of my 'home town'."

"Do not mistake us," resumed the Invisible, "we do not worry about your
application to little necessary things-it is the UNBROKEN application.
That's the thing that makes you commonplace. If you stop work, even
drudgery, often enough to switch your center of consciousness to big
spiritual proportions, you can accomplish ordinary life without getting
commonplace. You must get outside of a thing, always, to recognize it. So
keep alternating your centers of consciousness frequently enough to get a
proper proportion."




CHAPTER XX



Personal Responsibility


Suppose one acknowledges all this. Still it is conceivable that one might
decide just to let things slide.

"After all, it is my affair," one might imagine such a person saying. "As
long as I so conduct myself as to harm none of those about me, as long as
I live a socially decent life, it is nobody's business but my own whether
I live up to my opportunities or perceptions, or whether I prefer to
postpone my effort. I understand fully that this postponement means more
effort when the time comes; but I am willing to pay that price for the
sake of my present peace, or enjoyment, or freedom from struggle, or what
not. That is my concern alone."

But unfortunately for him this is not true.

We approached the subject indirectly, as was so often the case. Or, at
least, indirectly as far as we were concerned. These Invisibles seem to
keep in mind where they are going, and refuse to be deflected. I ask a
question; one that interests me, but does not belong to the main scheme,
or is unripe for it. I am answered quite often; but in that very answer
they manage most ingeniously to include something that furthers their own
discussion.

Thus, one day I had harked back to an old statement-"your world is more
selective than ours"--and was trying to get their idea of what our world
is meant for, anyhow.

"Your world is a vast storehouse of all sorts of things and experiences,"
they told me in effect, "and must be considered, in one aspect as a test
of selection."

"I'm in this storehouse," Betty broke in, "keenly aware of the test I am
undergoing, and I can't bring myself to make a selection. Perhaps I
should; but I don't want to shut it all out and pick up just a few
things. All my instincts are against picking up a few things, just a few
to work with, no! no! no! It's so FULL of things, every kind of an
equipment for work, every kind of tool and paraphernalia. It represents
the weight the athlete picks up to test his strength."

Then after an interval: "Now there's the same old horror of a five and
ten cent store, cheap horrid little things that people spend their lives
in making and selling. I don't want to pick them up.

" Oh! I know what I want to do! I want to eliminate them! That's nice
work! I wouldn't mind that! That's why I didn't want to pick them up! I
want to substitute. That's what this world is for; it's for the
substitution of values: the real for the imitation."

"Why the imitation in the first place?" I inquired.

There was a considerable pause, and then Betty reported:

"I am taking away some painted toys that someone is clinging to. I am
trying to quicken them, make them see, make them want some living things.
Now why are all these things in the beginning? Why make them at all? Why
run the risk of people selecting them?

"Such a mess: I can't separate it. Some of it is just the debris of
unabsorbed responsibilities, things people have left cluttering the
world. Lots of it is that. That just complicates things terribly. And
some of it is unfinished work,-very tiresome that unfinished work!-in
different stages of evolution. People didn't put strength enough into the
impetus and left it around; it isn't refuse, like the other, because it
has a start. And then there is more stuff, you see, and a lot of it is
very useful, all kinds of handy little kinks and knick-knacks, very
useful each in its little bit of a zone of action. But you pass through
those, like the phase of children and toys. That is why they speak so
slightingly of the world as a man speaks of toys; they've passed through
that stage. But it is a necessary one in evolution. You cannot easily
skip a grade; you always miss the link if you do."

"The only object these things fulfill," finished the Invisible, "is that
of children's toys; they teach people coordination. It is just the same
as resistance of the air to the plane; it is something to come in contact
with. You cannot overcome nothing. That is what the world is for."

"You say you cannot easily skip a grade," said I. "How about those who
die prematurely?"

"Can't be sure of that," said Betty. "Guess I'm tired; getting a little
weak. They look like a higher order of half-finished work. But what
happens to their withered growth? What happens to things cut short?
There's a sadness about that. It seems like a failure that somebody is
responsible for. I cannot see how it is remedied.

It is retarding . I see it like any accident that retards progress. It's
too complicated; I'll have to leave it. So many things happen that are
nobody's fault . Oh! Always some one's fault, eh? I'm too tired to
wrestle with it."

"Another time" they promised. "All we can say now is that any progress or
work has its accidents and failures. What compensations and faults there
are, and how they are made good we will take up again. It is ALWAYS
SOMEBODY'S FAULT!"

I brought up this aspect of the subject at our next meeting; for it
interested me greatly. They told us that the whole matter was too
involved and complicated to attempt; that the danger of getting a false
idea from a partial statement outweighed the advantages. Finally they
gave us a figure of speech by symbolizing to Betty.

Away back in history, said they in effect, conceive two lines side by
side that are supposed to run parallel forever. But there occurs a
deflection. It may be so slight that it could not matter in the least to
them at that time. They go on and on through time; but sooner or later
they will meet. Then they will arrest each other, or one will cut across
the other. But now from the point of view of the greater harmonious
proportion, something must be done with the crisscross tangle. The remedy
is in pruning the lines back, cutting them off, cutting them short. And,
they told us, back in the source, in those lines before they began to
deflect, lies a germ of life from which will grow other straighter lines
when once the pruning has been done.

This was admittedly vague, and left many gaps; but, we were assured, it
at least contained the principle. Betty, in her sensitized state, was
much puzzled.

"There is the crooked piece I cut off," she mused, "and the new straight
one, and they look something alike; and they've grown on the same living
body. Oh, somebody help me!

"Why couldn't our root be our real life, our real being? If our root is
our real being, our real source of life, it wouldn't matter so much if
some of us were pruned back for some reason or other, perhaps because of
some crossed growth. The life would be there to put it forth again,
perhaps with greater strength. That would explain vaguely the lives cut
short. It wouldn't be so incomprehensible if they had been pruned back to
their source by their own fault. And He would cut them back in greater
vision and wisdom. Now you are not so sorry for them. Their roots are
still there."

"I see that much of the principle," said I, "but how about the individual
cut short and deprived of his earth experience, that you state is
necessary?"

"I don't know," reported Betty after a long pause. "They seem to be
getting some compensating treatment It is like shaping a thing you prune
back. They're being watched and tended. That idea of having your roots is
a very deep one It stands for great vitality."

"Well, how about sheer accident," I persisted, "as when one is run down
by a train? And do I understand you use the Gardener as a symbol, or is
there some intelligence, or group of intelligences with power and duty to
do this pruning?"

"Oh, yes, there are terrible accidents," agreed the Invisible. "They are
like death-dealing derelicts, somebody's abandoned responsibility. As to
the great regulation of destiny, that is too vast to be reduced to human
terms at present."

"You said yesterday," I pointed out, "that it is always somebody's fault
when one is cut off untimely."

"Remember those deflected parallel lines, AWAY back," they reminded.

"I don't see why B should suffer loss of his earth opportunity because of
an action by A, perhaps a thousand years ago, and which A himself
probably did not understand," I objected.

Betty laughed heartily at this.

"They are laughing at you," she reported. "They say that is like the
child asking 'what is the sun?'"

"Why is the world run the way it is?" said the Invisible, Betty's voice
changing drolly to the measured tone in which they articulated. "Well,
the world is run as it is to demonstrate individual responsibility."

A moment later Betty returned to the idea of avoided responsibilities
being like derelicts turned loose that wreck or damage those with whom
they come in contact.

"I can't get high enough up to see why they wreck one and not another,"
complained Betty.

"That's too big for now," they intimated. "That is Fate.

"Do I gather," said I, "that there are, roughly speaking, two classes of
those whose lives are cut short; those who are pruned back, and those who
die by accident in running against these derelicts?"

"That is vaguely it," admitted the Invisible, "But they are not sharp-cut
little things like that; they are big blended things. But never mind."

And then they gave us our first glimpse of how we may gain a measure of
protection from this type of accident.

"By combinations of harmonious force it is possible to check an impetus
even when you are headed straight for a derelict," said they.

"If you see it!" I pointed out.

"Or if somebody sees it for you! " they amended.

"Besides, if you accumulate enough harmonious force, there is an
automatic action. Your own impetus is strong enough to fend you off. It
CAN be. There is something you can generate that both quickens your
senses and subconsciously directs you."

Next day they took up the subject again.

"There are laws that supersede laws," said they. "There is the blind
following of law; the unspent impetuses we see in all nature. In our
study of these natural laws we find we can direct and harness them. Now
the world is full of unfulfilled responsibilities. They go hither and
thither like atoms in the air. It seems blind chance whether they hit you
or somebody else; but part of the time they hit one or the other because
there is no superseding law." "I seek for a controlling force in all this
random action," said Betty. "Something in me tells me there is a
controlling, superseding force."

"Your spiritual instinct prompts your questioning of seemingly random
impulses. Union of your volition with spiritual force (our old friend
spiritual contact) governs those random impulses; just as understanding
of the law harnesses the forces of nature."

I asked whether one with highly developed and long continued spiritual
contact would be able to avoid these "accidents" and so be exempt from
untimely death.

"Not exempt, but greatly ordered," was the reply. "Often sorrow is a
quickening agent, one of the gates of wisdom; and it may be necessitated
by individual need. Then there are spots, torpid spots, that have to be
surgically treated. You must remember that collision with these derelicts
that have been turned loose does not necessarily mean death. It may mean
merely obstructed tendencies or desires."

"I referred to deprivation of chance for earth experience," I pointed
out, and received the following partial explanation:

"Those with unfulfilled responsibilities sap other people's output. They
are like parasites. Sometimes that involves a crime that terminates some
healthy existence, without fault of the person attacked. You want to know
about the innocent person who gets in the crossed line of growth. If this
crossed line had come in contact with a line of superior force, it could
not have crossed it. Therefore, it can harm only those of depleted
vitality. This depleted vitality, which is depleted spiritual force, may
be from inheritance. That again, you see, is unfulfilled responsibility."

"Wheels within wheels!" cried Betty in despair.

"There is a seemingly innocent victim, isn't there? pursued the
Invisible, "But he wouldn't have been a victim if he had possessed
superior spiritual force. So that was a good deal his part, too.

"Now let us further consider the seemingly innocent but weak victim. He
is pruned back because of weakness rather than because of misdirected
strength. Some are pruned back from rank growth; but this one from weak
growth. There is a compensating care that starts him anew. You can see a
visible example of it in the poor crooked fir that WILL grow straight on
top. The impulse of every living being is the primal instinct to renew
itself. It is the law of its being, Eke the pointing of the magnetic
needle. So the soul has its formula for growth, just as a tree has its
chemical formula for growth. It has to fulfill its law. The compensating
treatment is in the roots of its life."

"Is this new growth made here or there?" I asked.

"That is according to the strength of its core, its degree of spiritual
development: the size of its root, if you prefer that. It is easy enough
to see how it is with those of strength; they go on over here, with a
little compensating care, and grow by the law of their being."

"Well, how about the weaklings who have little care?" I asked.

"There is always an automatic action aside from especial action. This
weak thing is being self-doctored. It is stimulated in proportion to its
response. It always has its chance to germinate. It can be dormant for
countless time until some overflowing strength can imbue it with desire
to repeat the struggle. Then it can reincarnate. It is like a suspended
sentence.

"That is the work of the greater proportion, taking charge of the weak
things, suspending sentences, giving them a chance. That is the source of
the overflowing strength that imbues them with desire to repeat the
struggle. What would be the object of getting a core, if there were not
some necessary work for each?"

There was a short silence while Betty contemplated one of her
illustrative visions.

"I am acting to raise the whole," she reported presently. "I take my bit
of force and I act. I try out my strength through this leavening process
on all the lower stratum of weak things. That stratum must be lifted to
raise the level of the whole. IT MUST BE DONE! That is one's
responsibility."

"There is a terrible responsibility in entering), this consciousness,"
concluded the Invisible. "You then have to do more than your share to
make up for the accumulated wrongness. There is such an awful lot of this
wrongness to be absorbed! And you can never go back. When once you've
seen clearly all the mess men have made,-the folly, stupidity,
misunderstanding-you've got to become a sympathetic workman. You have
entered an ordered and harmonious consciousness which MUST act back on a
mess like that."




CHAPTER XXI



Summary


In the preceding pages we have been occupied largely with our relations
with experience. Now we must consider our relations with people. Before
doing so, let us sum up.

In the course of our evolution we progress through a series of levels. No
grade can be skipped, and each level must be filled out before it is
left. We fill out our levels by the assimilation of experience, and in
this process our greatest ally is the force which we gain from spiritual
contact.

For this assimilation we are responsible not only to ourselves but to our
neighbor; not only to our neighbor but to all that make up our world of
being down through the perspectives of time. If we shirk what is placed
before us, then we turn loose a derelict that may wreck or destroy. If we
would avoid damage or destruction ourselves, we must develop to the point
of acquiring protection. And our responsibility is more than our share
because the past has bequeathed its heritage of fault and failure.

"The world is run as it is to demonstrate individual responsibility!




CHAPTER XXII



Spiritual Circulation


Circulation is one of the great fundamental laws that run obviously
through all nature. Water evaporates in mist from the sea; is condensed
into clouds, falls as rain, and flows in rivers back to the sea. The seed
springs from the soil; grows to maturity; sinks back into the soil again.
We evoke the power of electricity from the earth's magnetic field; use it
to turn the wheels and illuminate the nights of a city, and return it
grounded to its origin. One could multiply examples indefinitely.

And just as a blockade in the bodily circulation is sure to bring
trouble, so ANY interference in the perfect rounding of the circle always
spells disaster. Drought, famine, death follow the non-functioning of
nature's circulations. Similar calamities attend stoppage in the free
flow of spiritual forces.

When the Invisibles first took up this subject they began it with a
sidelight on the spiritual body. It amounts, said they in essence, really
to the force that little by little you manage to segregate from the great
universal reservoir and make your own. By your own volition you
painstakingly segregate from the vast forces all around you. "This is
your own bit of force; you have surrounded and contained it, it belongs
to you. By getting these bits and welding them together, and working
hard, and capturing another bit-pretty soon it grows into a real thing.
It works just feebly, but after the manner of the whole big power.

"I am going to see if I can make out how the segregated bit should fit
into the whole," said Betty, "and the action of each on each.

"Over and over a pitcher and a bowl," she reported after a few moments,
"over and over a pitcher and a bowl. You fill the pitcher to your
measure, and you empty it into the world, the bowl. There's a rhythm over
and over again, filling and emptying, filling and emptying, a rhythm like
a great pulse.

"When some one fails, what happens? It is like a cylinder missing, the
pulsation skipping a beat. The filling and emptying process is disturbed.
There's a sucking void created because of that unfulfilled
responsibility."

We fill our pitchers, to epitomize the further teaching, by spiritual
contact; making from that source greater or lesser personal gain
according to the voluntary capacity we develop. Next, these advantages
must be passed on; the spiritual circulation must flow unimpeded. If it
is checked: then without fail, disaster follows.

In the picturesque phrase of the Invisibles, spiritual contact gives us
"sure-footedness" so that we can tread the difficult paths of life in
confidence. Equally important is its twin and balance, "bountifulness,"
which makes it Possible for us, as surely and accurately as the human
heart, to pass on what we have received. They must go together; or they
are neither of them effective.

"If you are bountiful without sure-footedness," said they, "you will be
just Irishly sympathetic; expansive but unconvincing. But if you are
sure-footed without being bountiful, you are merely ascetic."

Presently they showed Betty a picture illustrating this.

"I don't like to look at it; it makes me so uncomfortable!" said she. "
They say I have to look at it until I tell you about it. Very
uncomfortable, a kind of indigestion. If you just take, and don't
function naturally by giving, you get all clogged up and poisoned.
Self-contained virtue soon corrodes. Lots of these hit and miss impulsive
people do more good, even with their lack of sure-footedness."

It does not in the least matter, then, how godly a life we may lead, in
the sense of committing no positive evil, in the sense of
self-discipline, in the old ecclesiastical puritanical conception of
"saving our souls. " If we fail to give out, we have still missed the
most important job of all, and are still due for trouble of the worst
kind. If we do not draw off water from our reservoir, soon we shall have
no room for fresh to flow in: we shall become stagnant and dead.

"All the physical laws work in the same way," the Invisible took it up,
"even the lowest forms, the urges of the bodily functions. You must give
out or you poison yourself. If you take in a different spiritual
substance, you must be able also to throw off, in order to get the ideal
of simple normal action. This is rhythm and harmony. Move with it; do not
obstruct it. Call it anything you please. There are plenty of names for
it, all depending upon what plane you are dealing with, or what level:
constipation, nerve tension, miserliness, any kind of stagnation
depending upon what level it works. They are all alike. The same law
works in wider and more ascending ways."

"The minute you share, it doesn't all run away and dissipate and get
weak," said Betty. "It keeps its depth, and yet is ever so much wider-a
feeling of overflowing."

"Giving back is more important than taking," said the Invisible.

"I can see the bees over the honey in the hives," pursued Betty, "and the
ants: just full of this. They have surefootedness and bountifulness; they
act in their limited way within the Law. If you just travel directly,
without producing or giving out, you lose your health and dry up, and you
will at last have no power to attract the spirit."

"Remember that the first point of health," they added, "is the active
life that means constant inflowing and outflowing. You must not forget to
be constantly giving out. Watch out for that, or you'll get hardening of
the arteries."

"The forcing through is the next thing, getting it back," said Betty,
"straining it through the earth consciousness. Spiritual consciousness
strained through the earth-consciousness is what we are after."

She went on to elaborate the figure of a sort of double funnel, one end
widening toward the source of spiritual power, the other toward the
world.

"It wouldn't make any sense if I told you that it funneled in and
funneled out," said she, "but that's what they say. It starts from an
infinite expansion, condenses through the self, and then must be
distributed out. Behind you and in front of you are limitless expanses,
but mostly behind you. The free exit is almost as difficult as the
getting through. It is an expansion of what is given. It sometimes comes
through, but then stops. There is not enough impetus to bring it through
and spread it."

"In summary," they concluded, "first of all you stimulate your
consciousness to partake of the higher consciousness. Then you prepare
for a still higher comprehension by filling out your level. You fill out
your level by producing yourself, 'making it so'; which means the
materializing into the physical world of your new and vitalized
consciousness."




CHAPTER XXIII



The Return Flow


1. AUTOMATIC ACTION AGAIN.

All this is very well, I hear you say, and it may be true enough. It
forms a logical picture, and within this picture makes pretty good sense.
But how do you go about making it work in an ordinary busy life? After
all, the final test of anything is its practical application. You tell us
to "materialize into the physical world this new and vitalized
consciousness," but that is pretty abstract. What we would like is some
sort of definite handle by which to grab hold of the job.

Betty in her superphysical development met the same difficulty. It seemed
to her that entering this new consciousness was like striking out blind
into a strongly flowing river.

"I feel it just as a vast current!" she exclaimed. "I am in connection
with it. Little nerve-scattering things cannot hurt me. But this is not
enough. How can I arrest and deflect it, this mighty force? How can I
handle it? It sweeps through me and by me, partaking of me. How can I
partake of it? Suppose you found yourself in a mighty thing like this;
what would you do? I've got to decide.

"One thing is sure: it is easier to work with it from this end. I worked
from the other end before. Now I am working from strength back. The force
is always eager for new outlets; it helps me. I've got that strength to
help force through."

Later we found out that part of what we are looking for comes as an
automatic result, a by-product, of our efforts at contact: if we practice
this it tends to give us a quality of mind and heart that radiates even
without our meaning it to.

"The thing is mathematical," they told us.

"I hate mathematics," put in Betty promptly; then after a moment, and a
little doubtfully, "Well, I suppose they are nice and tidy."

"Just as two and two must inevitably make four," they went on in their
explanation, "so we, or the combination of qualities we have managed to
assemble, by which we have attained our level, or the formula we have
made for ourselves-or whatever you please to call it-has its automatic
action. And just as two plus two make four, that automatic action
produces certain results on the physical world. The mere fact that we are
what we are, emanating our thoughts, our desires, our spiritual quality,
produces its effect, irrespective of conscious intention on our part."

"You are distinctly spreading something!" Betty exclaimed. "That's the
automatic result. What I am interested in is the laws that govern it. I
call them laws; but they are harmonious workings. Now I've got to find
out.

"It doesn't do any good to look at the earth end and get a technique. You
must go to the source of things, and then the works out of itself-Too big
for me; I'm not sure of it" she gave that up.

"I'll tell you what I'm trying to understand: the reversal in order of
the way we work," she concluded. "We pay attention to the minute details
in order to be successful. That is all right; details must be attended
to, but I want to get this right. I must be careful. It has to do with
the 'take no thought' and 'consider the lilies' idea."

"Your main effort must go into union with the supreme force or
intelligence," the Invisibles helped out, "not by just calling it down
and isolating yourself in it, but by calling for it and uniting with it
in such a manner as to transmute it into an available earth force. That
is the secret of it."

"How could you make that practical in business?" Betty wondered. " It's
having a tremendous effect; I can see it . It changes the order of things
when you follow it into an office. I can't follow it very well, because I
can't apply it to any definite problem. But just as it has changed the
whole background of my life, so it acts in the business world. In some
cases it looks as though it were changing the business and substituting
something else. But the point is that instead of being a chaotic and
strained machine you become a powerful and orderly machine. Things around
you shift into different relationships. If you can get the inspiration to
generate this force within you, there is no question about its acting on
things."

"Here," the Invisibles took it up in their tones, "you get back to the
automatic action of the force you have gained

by your contact. If you truly get that, and pay your main attention to
it, it brings something approximating inspiration, insight, that carries
over so that when you come to the details they become concentrated,
essential, more successful instead of being strained and confused."

It is the difference between having spiritual capital and trying to run
your business on a spiritual shoestring. One is harmony; the other
discord. That is what the "take no thought" idea is. You will have the
strength to take care of details abundantly, if you give your major
attention to the spiritual association. "When you are rested and fit you
'play better than you can,' you 'work better than you can,' " said they.
"This association is how you get rested and fit spiritually; that's all.

"Attention is existence.

"In other words, choose where you are going to live. People are afraid to
leave their own plan, to relax their attention to the details, in order
to go back to their source of inspiration. But if they had the courage to
try it!

"There is certainly an automatic action to harmony. The man goes to his
office so full of renewed vitality and freedom of thought, courage, that
his trained faculties work more efficiently. He doesn't in the least
lessen his attention to detail; but it has become automatic action. That
automatic action springs from the power he generates from his habitual
existence, his habitual attention.

"A man who has no spiritual alliance, no source of vitality renewal,
whose existence is concentration on business details, gets business
adhesions. He either overreaches himself by establishing a haggling
standard of business, or he bankrupts his own soul. The other man ."

"Looks like an intermittent current," Betty interrupted.

"The other man keeps himself replenished and his .vision raised above his
work. He creates a different order of business. I grant you he's not
always as successful by the same standards; but he doesn't want to be.
He's of a higher type of development. His business has a life-giving
quality instead of a blood-sucking quality."

"Could you give illustrations?" I suggested.

"We don't know," they replied quaintly. "We don't belong to business. It
is just the Law. Work it out yourself."

"If you do not know business," I suggested, "how do you know this would
work in modern business?"

"I look at the action, the Law. I can't follow it out, but I know it is
the Law," replied the Invisible, a little impatiently. "It works in all
other things so I know it will work here."


2. SENDING OUT.

But this automatic action is not enough. As with spiritual contact, the
effect can be very much increased if we give it intelligent support. And
this means the gaining of another inner attitude that is not easy to
grasp. Betty was led to it gradually through the usual variety of
symbols.

"It sounds silly to say 'think horizontally,' doesn't it?" she remarked
one time. "But that is it. It is as though the spiritual force were
fluid, and by thinking horizontally it could be made to flow in all
directions about you, reaching others and bringing others to you in a
single all-embracing exchange of vitality."

Another time the Invisibles were discussing the subject.

"There is an open-hearted feeling hard to describe," said they. "It is
not just making yourself charitably disposed toward people; that's an
imitation, awkward, paltry, blundering. You don't try to PLEASE people;
that's silly. You just proceed on your way, but the emanations from an
open heart spread around you, working according to their law, and
bringing return of rich reaction."

"The thing I do," acknowledged Betty, "is to shut down on people and
retire into myself-that is, my lower level. I must try to be more
open-hearted until I can stay that way. Everything goes wrong the minute
I shut down. It is like a trap that is always falling on me. One moment I
am walking along all right in the open, and all of a sudden the trap
falls and I am shut in by the walls of myself. Now I have recognized it,
so maybe I can keep from getting into it-or at least I can crawl out
again."

"In your relations to people," continued the Invisible, "it isn't at all
this everything-to-everybody, hand-grasp idea. That's the cheap
imitation; very cheap! There is dignity and reserve and depth to the real
thing. It is just a QUIET feeling, a silent feeling of kinship and
sympathetic response, instead of the usual indifference we feel. It
should be the first point of contact when you meet each person. If you
send him that when you first meet, then you can begin to talk without
tensions or contractions. Only then do you get real intercourse with
people."

When two people meet, both of whom are thus openhearted toward one
another, then you see genuine friendship and love; on one level or
another. There is nothing miraculous about it, nor anything more
intangible than chemistry.

"You can find anywhere in this ordinary world samples, fragments, that
have been brought down and left. They have had their growth stopped, or
they have been abandoned. But they don't die out, and they are here. They
pop out in various generations. You see some of it in people who give
fellowship generously, who inspire you and stimulate your heart. You
recognize the quality, but you don't say: that's a good sample, we must
have more of it. You just think it's a happen-chance, an eccentricity of
one person, something belonging to another, instead of an ingredient of
the whole that we are working toward."

Perhaps these hints will give a glimpse of the attitude we are after. If
it still seems obscure, try to get the idea of that wide-hearted feeling
of our first attempts at contact; and add to it the idea of gathering
others into it. It is the feeling of spiritual contact plus a sending out
feeling. If we do this, we were assured, the details will take care of
themselves.




CHAPTER XXIV



The Channel Back


1. SERVICE.

Perhaps by now we had some comprehension of this ebb and flow, this
spiritual circulation. But we knew little of the more exact details of
mechanism. Here is a strong force, a strong current. But a strong
current, of any kind, presupposes a definite channel in which it can
flow. Blood circulates in veins, rivers have beds, electricity follows
its conductors. What is the channel here?

We got our glimpse by what little we were able to elicit as to the
state-of-life of our Invisibles themselves.

Curiosity as to particulars of the life "over there" is natural. In the
beginning we questioned them eagerly. We got little satisfaction; though
we received answers, sometimes. Most often, however, we were told flatly
that it was not our present business. And, anyway, they added, its
details are often so unlike anything we know about, or can conceive, that
even a try at an approximation would merely convey false images.

This was not impolite: it was no snub. They did tell us certain simple
and basic things. They have form. They can see our physical world as we
see it, but only when the occasion was important enough to justify the
effort. And so on. But no geographical descriptions, so to speak, such as
a traveller would bring from a far country. That manner of life is not
our manner of life: we are not ready for it; we should remain in this
without unsettling conceptions until we have finished with it;
distraction is useless.

"If we gave detailed specifications of our life over here, it would be
impossible thereafter to concentrate your attention on broad general
principles," they told us plainly, "on the few simple lines of your
effort. It is painfully difficult to eliminate and economize your
attention. Only by shrouding other things in mystery can we occupy your
minds in due proportion to the importance of the things we select. You do
not agree with us, but the same method is successfully employed on earth
to develop men of genius. We protect them, we shroud them, we amputate
from them. Be content to look where we point. Time enough for details
later when we show you around. Take my word for it; impossible to
explain."

But though we have not been given geographical details, inevitably in the
course of many discussions we have glimpsed here and there certain
conditions of that state.

Some of them you have gathered in these pages. Among other things, we
learned that their world is a world of development, of work to that end;
and that it contains the resistance to effort which is necessary to
development. In fact, they have at times used the word RESISTANCE
interchangeably with the word WORK. Our first hint as to the nature of
this work was given Betty in a symbolical experience.

"I'm face to face with this vast level of consciousness that is back of
human consciousness," she reported. "They show me a great rope twisted of
many strands . I don't understand it. It runs through us all. It is the
connecting link. It is the connection through which we act on each other
on this level. When we touch it, it is charged with life and vitality, an
open way of wisdom and understanding. Our invisible friends use it; they
don't create it. If you had no invisible friends and you touched, reached
this level, somebody would answer somewhere if you had a real need they
could supply. It is the universal conductor in some way. It is what
people feebly recognize as the sub-conscious-only it is super, not sub.

"The point is that on this level there MUST be an answer to an actual
need: if you reach this level you are sure of an answer to your need. I
don't understand it very well. It is a universal thing that could reach
anybody in the universe who had something you needed, or who needed
something you had.

"On this level there is always something you are attracted to in this
way-somebody you want to work on. And the only way you can work is to get
something to work with. That is the first incentive here. It is a fine
busy world!"

"All human processes must have an incentive in order to get them
accomplished," explained the Invisible. "Your first incentive over here
is to seek eagerly for strength in order to aid some one whom your
superior perception shows to be in dire need. It is so simple. You get
almost frantic about rendering first aid of some kind.

"It is a very strong instinct. One of the strongest of yours is the sex
instinct which carries on the physical world. This is the great strong
instinct that carries on the spiritual world. You must get something to
put in the void beneath you. It is the first big urge: get busy! fix this
mess you see under you; and when you realize how useless and futile you
are, you try hard and experiment until you acquire something with which
to work."

"That seems to be my dominant instinct, the thing I feel strongest," said
Betty, "that idea of reaching up for something, not with the idea of
collecting it for myself, but with the idea of using it as a tool to work
with. It is a way of furnishing myself for the business of living."

"We all move upward by what we build under us," concluded the Invisible.
"It is the filling out of your level, but a step higher. This shows the
foundation of actual accomplishment you must put under you."


2. THE NATURE OF SERVICE.

Here is the rock on which many religions and many systems of ethics have
split wide open. By logical steps they reach the point where the
rendering of service appears as the spiritual fulfillment. So at that
point the more consecrated of their devotees go forth to render service.

But right here is where most of us get off. We are probably leading
normal busy lives, with families and other responsibilities. To become a
professional philanthropist would mean the disruption of our entire
established order. Very likely, too, we have a healthy prejudice against
any dilettante Going Down to Call on the Poor, furnished out with a
brisk, cheerful manner, a form card, and a determination to Do Some Good
in the World. And so we acknowledge the problem intellectually, but do
little or nothing about it.

Much the same thing is true of any kind of missionary or reform activity.
Most people have an instinctive aversion to Carrying Sweetness and Light
to Darkened Souls. And those who try it on anyhow, generally do little
but get in wrong with their friends.

The trouble is, we have not realized the possibility of another kind of
service-one that is open to us all.

"It is a quickening, awakening process," Betty explained. "I am not big
enough for it yet-I haven't enough heart-containing quality to manage it.
And I don't understand it. I only know I've got to go among People every
day, experimenting with it."

"This," the Invisible told her, "will give you daily practice for some
time to come: this experimental work, the first application of principles
that have been imparted."

"It is hard to know just how to go about it," complained Betty.

"Experiment! Experiment! And live in constant association of mind with
the tremendous power of spiritual force until it becomes the backbone of
your consciousness. Its life-giving quality is the richest gift you can
pass on. It is second-hand inspiration. The main thing is to help people
to get it first hand. But sometimes you can't-it is too unaccustomed."

"I can't just dump it on them," Betty objected. "I've got to get some
sort of technique for administering it."

"When you want to germinate people," said the Invisible, "you admit them
to a companionship in your spiritual contact. It is like taking them in
out of the cold."

"Any practical hints?" I ventured.

"I'll try to find out how you do it," said Betty, and then was gone for
some time.

"He's thawing out," she said at last, "but I don't know how I did it-It
seems to be the superior force of my own warmth of conviction . That's
how you do it: by your demonstrated stability.* You see, everybody really
wants stability; and they always recognize a person who has it. If you
have something they haven't, but want, they'll pay attention to you. And
if they haven't it and DON'T want it, but you make them feel it, then
they'll begin to want it. You make your stability by spiritual contact.
Then somehow the response to that contact must be shared."

* See Part I, Chapter VI, Section 2.

"Unfolding: that's the way of it," interjected the Invisible. "You unfold
people in a certain atmosphere until it soaks into them."

"You must do it so they'll think they're doing it themselves," Betty went
on, "--as they will be. You must be only an agent to arouse their own
active forces, silently, very carefully, almost secretly. It is too vague
to go into yet. I'll know in time how to do it."

She paused to consider what they offered.

"To show people to themselves seems to be the only way," she resumed.
"Not their faults; but their best selves, their real selves. That is the
only handle to take hold of. That is what they are doing to me."

The silent instruction went on for a few moments, then she continued:

"I remember-was it Richard Coeur de Lion? He was in prison, and his
friends used to whistle or sing under all the dungeons until they got an
answer. The only way to get at people is to call out encouragement to
their imprisoned self. After a while you can stimulate it to stir itself
and take possession. No use pointing out people's faults and attacking
them. That is silly. If you arouse their inner selves, they will take
care of their own faults."

Which last remark seems to me the very essence of common sense.

"Whatever you do," concluded the Invisible, "avoid the holier-than-thou
attitude toward people. That is far from what we want. The worst ones
often are the narrow and virtuous ones; they blind the trail. Nobody
wants to be like them, so they go off in the wrong direction. They are
very harmful people, very harmful. They would be surprised to know that
often they are really worse than many in the penitentiary. Narrow and
uncharitable virtue!

"The way to counteract this tendency and yet maintain your ideals is to
think of yourself always as an agent. Then there will be no tinge of
superiority or self-satisfaction in your attitude. Why are you being
given light? To distribute so quietly and unobtrusively that it will
arouse no resentment or resistance, but will gradually sink into others
unawares. That is the way of influence-bad, unfortunately, as well as
good; so yours must be the stronger of the two."




CHAPTER XXV



Insulation


1. THE VORTEX.

We experimented as instructed, and soon found that the technique of this
new kind of service was a pretty complicated thing. With congenial people
it seemed to be easy enough. But unfortunately many of our daily contacts
must be with dragging, non-receptive, aggravating, non-comprehending and
uncongenial personalities. Ordinarily, perhaps, in such cases we are
inclined to take refuge in indifference that amounts to a separating
gulf. If not indifferent, then we are contemptuous of them; or actively
in conflict with them; or even, if we are of nervous sensitive
temperaments, they drive us crazy. And usually we are ourselves more or
less affected, more or less nagged into deteriorating emotions. Daily
contact with such people is one of the first things we must learn to
manage.

"Do not let your newly acquired freedom and energy be sucked into the
vortex," said the Invisible unexpectedly one day.

"It is just out of reach, but perilously near," supplemented Betty. "I
must keep my energy lifted up, insulated. The minute it rests without
insulation it gets into the vortex."

"What is the vortex?" I asked, for it was a new figure and meant nothing
to me.

"I'll go down and look at it. Wait," promised Betty, after which ensued a
pause.

"I am watching somebody go into it as a demonstration," she went on. "It
is the zone of action of lower forms of life. You see, when I get within
the power of that zone its action begins on me in spite of myself. It is
like getting into quicksand; that acts on you, and you can't help it.
That's a zone of action of a certain kind. It takes great, almost
superhuman, spirituality to go into that lower form of life and hold your
own. You can do it, if you have the right insulation. They are trying to
get me out of it, and keep me in another zone of action so I can acquire
the superior force.

"It is the antithesis of spiritual. It is the impetus to nullify, to
deaden your life-containing powers. It is analogous to the way a certain
action takes place and a tree is petrified; or if you stay out in the
cold, you freeze. Certain action takes place, a certain impetus is
unchecked, and you are reduced to a helpless state and can't do anything
about it. It has a great drawing power toward its own. When you get in
the vortex it begins to work on you unless you have a strong insulation."


2. MAINTAINING OURSELVES.

If you want to help someone, first of all you must somehow be better off
than he is. Then in your effort to lend a hand you must be careful not to
lose your advantage. If you want to pull someone out of the mud you must
first get a firm footing yourself-and then keep it while you are trying
to land him. Anyone can see that.

But when the need is an intangible mental or emotional one, instead of a
perfectly plain physical one, we generally act as though this principle
no longer obtained. We get angry, or we weep on the other person's neck,
or we indulge in sympathetic recriminations, or whatever. Circumstances
differ, but in every case the process is the same: we abandon our own
equilibrium in favor of the other's turmoil.

This is the vortex. Clearly, if we are to be of any use, we must not
approach it undefended; must not get drawn in by its almost irresistible
zone of action. If we do, one of two things must happen: either we must
enter into conflict, use violence, in order to retain our very mastership
of ourselves; or else that mastership will be warped, bent aside,
modified by the influence of conflicting and disintegrating forces. That
meeting of the other influence, or the other man, on his home ground is
where most of the trouble begins.

"When dealing with non-receptive people," they said, "you must first of
all protect yourself from getting in their zone of action. It is an
insulation. You must first insulate yourself. Insulation is not
unsympathetic! It is just the precaution the doctor takes against
infection. That is done by quickly raising your thought above the
disease-level and concentrating on the cure, so that none of your
attention is taxed by getting into their morass. If you meet the
opposition in its own manner, it entangles you. You must not let it
obscure the strength of your desire to serve. It is human to oppose
opposition, so watch out!

"It's like being immune," Betty reported. "Curious! They hurl themselves
on me, bite me-it LOOKS like biting me-but they can't inject any poison.
It is impossible for them to hurt me because all my attention, my
consciousness, my nerve centers, my existence is centered above them
where they can't get at them. If they could draw down my attention, if
they could make me hate them, if they could get me to work on their
level, then they could poison me."

This, then, is the secret of maintaining our integrity: we must meet the
problems of our world and the people of our world, not in their zone of
action, but in ours. We must not go to them; we must get them to come to
us.

"When a child enters the room he at once establishes himself, brings with
him his child's world which at once you strive to enter," they
illustrated the idea.

And our world must be one we have constructed for ourselves by spiritual
contact-by centering our consciousness in the level above.


3. FOREDETERMINATION.

We were led into methods and ideas slowly. One evening a friend was with
us, a friend who had that day come in contact with one of those wearing
members of the family who fairly suck out the life blood under a
plaintive plea of due family affection. Our friend was just about all in:
and the Invisibles gave her some advice.

"Don't take dragging personalities to heart," said they.

"Let them hang as heavily as they please on your body, but not on your
spirit. That is drafted for other work. Think of them as only scratching
the surface. It will keep you immeasurably freer and will conserve your
strength. Separate yourself deliberately before you encounter them. Give
them your body to play with. Try it."

"I have tried it." said our friend.

"Yes, you have. But you must always deliberately prepare yourself in
advance, because otherwise it is difficult for one side of you not to be
influenced by the exhaustion of the other."

"You forget that on earth our spirits and our flesh are pretty closely
knit together," she reminded them.

"That's just my point," said the Invisible. "Disconnect them, like the
telephone, temporarily and deliberately. It can't be done when the
vibrations between you are once set up. It must be done before hand.
Foredetermination is a powerful weapon, little appreciated. You'd be
surprised to see how it would work. Use it more."

"They're trying to show me how you can protect yourself-" put in Betty.
"That's all very well, but you're not definite enough . How can you leave
your consciousness on one level and walk around in another?
(complainingly). That doesn't make sense!"

"Leave your consciousness in repose on a higher level than your physical
functions," said the Invisible. "The intervening space absorbs
deteriorating vibrations-vibrations will do--acting as a kind of vacuum,
like a thermos bottle."

"There's a good idea there, but it's vague," said I. "Let us be definite.
Let us postulate Mrs. B., a bore, a depletor of your vitality; but
nevertheless some one you are morally bound to help."

"Take it the other way around," suggested the Invisible. "The effect of
your attitude will be to react on Mrs. B."

"I can see Mrs. B.," said Betty. "She's forgotten everything she wanted
to say, lost her power over you She's gone into the shock absorber, the
vacuum part."

"In effect it is a weapon of defense, a superiority of arms which you
must experiment with in order to believe it can be demonstrated. Try it.
Do not contemplate your end of it in relation to her; occupy yourself
maintaining your shock absorber.

"And watch your foredeterminations. Bad days must not be bad before they
begin. Put your consciousness on the shelf-the level above-before you
start out every day. You need more preparedness for yourself."




CHAPTER XXVI



Sympathy


While the foregoing is certainly true, we must watch our interpretation
of it. Its practice might easily turn toward an egotistical
self-centering, a lack of sympathy with the other fellow's point of
view,--what might be called a spiritual Toryism. Beware of such an
interpretation. It is simply that when we step out to meet the world,
after having more or less development in solitude through spiritual
contact, connection with the greater forces, we must be able to protect
ourselves. Otherwise we would soon fall back into the old turmoil. We
have laid off our old turtle shell of indifference, of antagonism, of
clannishness, and all the other world protections: we must in
compensation command this other safeguard or we shall be torn to pieces.

But there is in mere insulation no construction in the way of service,
spiritual circulation. There is not even the consolidation of
"make-it-so." Insulation is merely a means to an end, a tool to use, a
self-preserving thing. It is often very necessary. But it is never more
than a beginning.

"Your first insulation process should become automatic," they advised us,
"so your attention will not be engrossed by it, but will be entirely free
to focus on your faith genuinely to Rive of all spiritual first aid,
sympathizing with your heart and not judging with your mind. There is a
very wrong way to do it: that is to insulate yourself and just stay
there. That is irritating and selfish and very aggravating to the
trouble. Nothing could be worse."

With this any of us will agree who have encountered the bland, blank
superiority that seems to say: we will not discuss this because of course
you would not understand.

The antidote is sympathy. Unfortunately, sympathy is one of those
mildewed words-or at least it has spots of mildew. Nothing is more
annoying to the average of humanity than the false sort of sympathy, even
when it is wholly sincere: the sort of sympathy that is sentimentally
maudlin or voluble, or ostentatiously "Christian." And no better is the
kind that tries to "share your trials and sorrows": that so completely
enters your annoyance or perplexity or grief as to adopt it; to
strengthen it;-and perhaps to end by leaning against you for comfort!

Real sympathy-the useful kind-is an entirely different thing. When it was
first shown to Betty she did not recognize it.

"I don't understand the way this sorrow looks," said she. "From here
suffering looks like just an INGREDIENT of life. I don't think I can get
that . I don't know what to compare it to. I am so afraid of getting it
wrong. It looks like an undiluted acid.

"From where I am, suffering looks like just a great mass of work you've
got to force yourself to attack and bit by bit lessen, transmute,
consume,-I can't understand why it doesn't make me any SORRIER. It is so
different from the way I have always felt before. I feel deeply
responsible and solicitous, but the feeling has a curious proportion. I
am spending my energy in a given ratio. In place of spending my attention
in being sorry over unharmonized ingredients; I associate myself, I join
forces with the vastly greater proportion, the greater harmony. Wait,
wait! I've got to investigate this! It's so different from the way I've
always felt; I've spent my life being sorry for people."

"If you do only that," said the Invisible, "it is like sitting with and
sympathizing with a sick person instead of getting the Great Doctor who
could cure him."

"I don't like it-it's so puzzling," complained Betty. "Being right down
among them and being sorry doesn't get me anywhere; and it doesn't get
them anywhere."

"There is a whole," the Invisible took up the argument. "There is in it a
little spot of discord, call it sorrow. Then there is all the rest, the
greater proportion of harmony. If you can get out of the zone of action
of that little spot into the greater harmony, you do not become aloofly
superior and unsympathetic-the attitude of you don't understand; it's
your own fault-but you get deeply responsible, and you acquire power to
act, power to transmute. It is a necessity. You act upon it and fly to it
eagerly with something bigger than ordinary sorry-sympathy, because it is
a life-giving sympathy, a reinforcing sympathy. You act almost hungrily
on that sorrow, absorbing it with the greater proportion of harmony. But
you must get out of that smaller zone of action in order to be any good.
It is the ratio in which you can give. The more you live and ally
yourself with the greater proportion of harmony, the more you can
identify yourself with it and command it-and utilize it, the more you can
further its ends of becoming whole and absorbing the spot of disharmony."

"It is so important always to run and get help instead of just sitting
and feeling sorry," added Betty. "And it is not selfish to have your life
centered in that greater proportion. That's queer; you seem to have to
pass that sorrow stage somehow into the other in order to contain it
sympathetically. Funny how now you can be actively solicitous for
them-something more active than being sorry-without letting them enfeeble
you. It is insulation again, so you can act upon them. There is a feeling
of conviction in ultimate wholeness; that by time and your eager efforts
you can harmonize the whole and eliminate the spot.

"Oh, dear!" she said suddenly. "I don't want to go! But I've got to! I'm
dropping down so suddenly!"

"That's the new element they gradually led me into without my recognizing
it. I haven't begun to tap the power of alliance. I've just got to get
perception enough to want to live in it."

"It's so simple," assured the Invisible. "Any atmosphere you put yourself
in you unconsciously absorb, whether it's musical or artistic or what. If
you live in this spiritually harmonious atmosphere, this greater
proportion, if you develop the capacity to live in it, it begins to react
on you, to strengthen you, and gives you scope beyond anything you ever
dreamed of. So, while you are sorry, you are strongly sorry, not weepy
sorry."

And in this glimpse we see the unity of ideas that runs back of it all,
the insulation, the centering of consciousness on the higher level, the
keeping out of the zone of action in order to be free-handed, and
wide-hearted in helpfulness.

"Sympathy is the key to it all," they added. "Sympathy is not pity: but
understanding, and then caring about it."




CHAPTER XXVII



Meeting Non-Receptivity


1. AVOIDING CAPTURE.

The things we have been considering are simple enough in theory; but far
from easy of accomplishment. No matter what our good will, it is
sometimes almost impossible to avoid irritation, anger, even obstinate
hostility. Try as we may, we find ourselves-our whole consciousness-down
in the other fellow's zone of action, scuffling with him in the dust,
using the old weapons, and coming forth victor or vanquished according to
the brute strength of us. But, whether victor or vanquished, shaken in
our finer parts! Even after we can Work it fairly well in the ordinary
business of every-day life, "duty" or affection trips us up. It is not
easy. We will be licked about as often as we will win out; but that is no
reason why we should not keep on trying. Avoidance is even worse than
failure. There is no use in acquiring these things unless they can stand
the test of living. Indeed, they are worse than useless, for they will
have merely made us sensitive without having made us strong.

"Every time I meet a difficult person," said Betty, "the need arises for
using that combination with the spiritual. But when annoyance, due to
what you might call my near-sightedness, takes possession of me, I shut
out deliberately at the time of need; just when I ought to use the
combination to grapple with the problem-to supersede the old near-sighted
way. At the moment of test I give myself over to the human mechanism
part, I sink myself entirely in that, let go all hold of the other. I say
to myself: this is a case for such and such definite action; what can
spiritual expansion or consciousness have to do with it?"

She was manifestly impatient at some failure of the day before: annoyed
at the fact that a petty complication with a petty person had upset her.

"Every time I feel annoyed or deflected or crossed," she resolved, "I'll
think of myself as in danger of capture by an inferior force. Instead of
cutting myself off from my reinforcements, I'll try to utilize them in
commonplace moments like that, and not keep them for big, noble
occasions."

"Trying to combine the ideal with the practical mechanism is very
difficult, for they have always been developed separately," observed the
Invisible. "It is useful, whenever provoking things happen, to look at
yourself that way: as in danger of being the vanquished instead of the
victor, the captured instead of the captor. Each time you score, it is a
definite count; it is not erased. It is like acquiring something; makes
what you are doing easier. It is a great help each time you hold fast and
don't get captured.

"But when you look at the defeat side, it is like compound interest. The
next time you will have to overcome this time, and the failure that went
before, and the one before that. No wonder you get caught! One little
success will start you. It does not matter, though, how firmly you hold
to your combination with the greater force; it will not do you much good
if you let go each time. Just hold on; and make one little success, one
pathetic little success. It counts; helps so much!"


2. THE BIRD'S-EYE VIEW.

Another useful suggestion was that we should try, as far as it was
possible, to look on deterrent personalities not as individuals but as
belonging to a unit, a whole, a level of consciousness: and when you do
think of them as individuals, think of them as warped, out of proportion,
wrong-headed, if you must; but as being so not because of their personal
malice or intent, but because of this distorting element in which they
have their spiritual being. To put it another way, they see things
wrongly not because they squint deliberately, but because their lack of
development furnishes them that sort of a lens.

"The consciousness I look down on," said Betty, examining this, "is a
kind of formation, a mass, that has become a unit, like one pervasive
element. And the effect that single element has is to make earth problems
all look the same way. So I am never dealing with a cranky or a dull or
an irresponsible individual, but with them as a struggling whole, with
tendencies instead of little idiosyncrasies. I am sensitive to the
underlying struggle, where all the little surface characteristics are not
so obstructionary as they usually are. I have broken down that surface to
a kind of dematerializing; it has disappeared and I can see what is
below. That I could do because I looked at it in this bigger massed way,
instead of individually. I can't translate it."

"Study causes, not effects," concluded the Invisible. "Give understanding
to those who suffer from poverty of vision. Do not concern yourself with
the symptoms of their disease, however annoying or obstructional. Each
time habit drags you down to focus only on results, symptoms, effects,
instead of deeper, higher perception, you are retarding your own
development as well as acting the part of the miser."


3. OVERFLOWING.

The importance of actually living all this, making it so, one time was
brought home to us most forcibly. For some days we could get in touch
with nobody; we seemed quite deserted.

"When we do not come," they explained finally, "it is a signal to turn
back and consider something that has been left uncertain. The flow of
your stream is obstructed. Great responsibility is now on you;
increasingly heavy as your perception grows. Unless you harmonize the
weight, that is, carry only your share of it, and lift the rest up to us;
you are not succeeding. Carry your share and responsibility."

Betty paused for some time to contemplate what they offered.

"The unassimilated part that set me back," she said at last, "was my just
merely recognizing people's depressing weight of blindness, without any
strength of desire to serve, without any attempt mentally to encircle
them, to unite them to a higher strength, to work upon them through
spiritual laws. In my thoughts I passed them by unaided. Until I get this
all cleared up, I can't do anything else.

"There they are: Y., whose life gave me the horrors, and X., who hurt my
feelings, and the old Worm-they're all there, and I shrank from them. I
thought of them as stopping the flow of my stream. That was all my own
point of view. I ought to have overflowed."

She considered this further.

"But," she objected, "all my admiration is gone, all sentiment of that
kind. What is it I should give them? What is there I CAN give them?"

"Give bountifully of your spiritual vitality," said the Invisible. "That
is what they are starving for. It enters the consciousness somehow, and
gives them a faint perception. Don't shut down or turn away. Indifference
is so terrible. It closes in on you like a fog. You grope and struggle.
You make constantly renewed efforts. You fight your way out into the sun
again where you can see clearly once more and there is some joy in the
doing. Then when the quick and ready resentment comes toward people,
remember what it was like when you were in that fog.

Your whole heart will be set on helping people. That is hardest of all
when there is no response. But it must be done in spite of the lack of
visible accomplishment."

"I am looking at it," said Betty, "to see how you go about lifting this
dead weight."

"It is done by chemical action again. You can't just say: Poor thing I
have faith she's going to get help. I'll lift her up in my thoughts.
That's no good; that's outside you. There's got to be strength enough in
you to send out something to the person, something that overflows from
your own conviction, has vitality enough to reach them. If it isn't big
and strong enough, it only gets half way, and then is turned back by the
other person's non-receptivity. It must be a battering-ram sort of thing.
You must make them feel, not any critical virtue on your part, but faith
in their own strength. It is the idea of expanding something from their
own strength to the Great Strength over all."

"I know," Betty admitted, "but you've got to make it practical. Imagine
my trying to expand-!"

"Your attention is all concentrated on what he CAN'T do. If it were
concentrated on what he COULD do, it might help. Watch yourself,"
admonished the Invisible.

"That's the point," Betty agreed. "We let these non-receptive, unbalanced
personalities obstruct our streams, instead of developing a superior
vitality and overflowing on them. It is very hard to do when you are
sensitive to people. Non-receptivity and lack of balance look so ugly!
Ugh! Like a sort of petrified malformation! It seems to be hopeless to
hurl yourself on those!"

"If you really believe in the chemical-transmuting power of the spirit,
it can be done," assured they. "But you can't believe it without using
it. You can't keep it shut up in a treasure cabinet of the mind. It must
be put to its intended use: re-creation."

"That's all very well, but--" Betty began.

"If you expect to spread our teachings," the Invisible interrupted,
"there must be this next step, this acquisition of power to overcome not
only yourself but others, by the same method. You are not doing it alone
if you utilize the spiritual law."




CHAPTER XXVIII



Conflict


1. TURNING ON THE PRESSURE.

Nine times out of ten the methods we have been considering will prove
effective. But sometimes they are not enough. Every once in a while the
opposition will prove too strong, and we will have to resort to more
drastic measures.

"People don't go far enough against non-receptivity," said the
Invisibles. "They have little spiritual courage. You must have the
strength both to overcome it and to register your own conviction-and that
must be a genuine conviction or it will not carry. The strength with
which you give determines what they will receive, for they can get only a
small percent of what is sent.

"This never can be done perfunctorily, for you have twice the pressure to
meet as when dealing only with yourselves. You must double the pressure
when you work with others."

Betty lapsed into a silence so long continued that I asked what was
doing.

"I am hard at work; leave me alone," she objected. "I am studying how to
overcome the opposition we encounter, which they spoke of as
non-receptivity. You will always be turned back on yourself if you do not
know how to overcome it."

"Double the pressure," repeated the Invisible. "In non-receptivity you
fight also your own thwarted thought. Your own thwarted impulse must be
revitalized to penetrate the resistance they offer."

"I can see them busily erecting a defense, as though fearful of being
stormed," reported Betty. "All their strength is in that defense; all
their attention is on it. There is nothing to receive an impression from
you. What can you do? You can fight to a finish if you want to; but it's
such a waste. You merely arouse to greater defensive action along the
lines of least resistance. You're just clashing to no purpose.

"This is hard to get. Let me try.

"Here I am. I want to influence him. I'm trying, but the resistance is
too great; it is impervious. Oh,. I'm changing weapons!"

"Oppose at first with all your strength," struck in the Invisible. "That
first rush of opposing strength is very important because it preserves
your own impulse, keeps it from getting into the zone of action of the
opposing strength. That follows the natural law of self-preservation."

"That certainly is very important," agreed Betty. "It is establishing
your own standard in order to get through their zone of action quickly
and forcefully, before you get involved in it."

"But then you must convert your weapons to spiritual ones," warned the
Invisible.

There was a pause while Betty studied the problem.

"Their method is so different from ours! " she exclaimed at last. "They
don't just face a thing squarely and attack it doggedly face to face.
They use a kind of mental release-they unstopper themselves, increase
their capacity. There is in this not the idea of striking loose and being
superior and unsympathetic; they always keep sympathetic contact with the
opposing force. But the idea is of generating something so much bigger
and superior, a kind of reflected or borrowed something, that they can
return and overwhelm it.

"That is the way they conquer a thing, work on it, over there. It is
quite a thrillingly fascinating way because there is so much zest to it;
it's the grandest hunting in the world."

"Just unstopper yourself," concluded the Invisible, "and something within
evaporates, so to speak-returns to its source. It is a simple, normal
action. Just don't keep yourself corked up. Remember: open at the top!"

2. SIMPLIFICATION.

Once we have got a start in this way, our next care must be not to get
caught in an argument over non-essential details.

"Hold on tight," advised the Invisibles, "and don't say much; for words
confuse them, and they have to start combating them. Say just enough to
direct their attention. Make them feel your attitude of mind, and
especially convince them of your lack of antagonism, your conviction that
harmony is possible between you. Lured from their own base, meeting no
opposition or antagonism of the kind they expect, there is a chance of
enough uncertainty and receptivity to enable you to awaken new
perception.

"Now state with all the force of your convictions the simplified problem
as you see it. Force and simplification are necessary to recreate your
vision to others. You've got to raise up the level of the whole thing by
the strength of your own wider vision, which you have acquired by the
elimination of the very things under dispute. Never weaken or scatter
yourself at this point by giving heed to their distorted view. It is an
attracting of attention from the perverted to the healthy for which you
must try. Bring forward in plain statements your attitude of mind,
approaching theirs only after definitely shaping and stating your own.
You then have made a contrasting picture, form of mind, and can safely
approach theirs for the purpose of reproportioning it.

"In any small application try sympathetically stating the two contrasting
forms of mind, shapes of thought; stating the other's first, perhaps, as
you see it, followed by a whole-hearted creation of your own. And always,
in the contrasting form of treatment, the leavening of sympathy and
encouragement which will make it work. It will not otherwise. Incomplete,
it becomes merely antagonistic, and fails. Coupled with sympathetic
encircling action, minus anger, it will work. The great trouble is
half-recipes, half-truths.

"And don't dispute. State the purity of your aims, which will recur at
their calmer moments and sink in. They remember now only the irritated
words of dispute. Make your own form of life to present in contrast to
theirs. That is the only way. The force of your vision must get in. It
must have strength and energy and beauty.

"Concentrate on two points: reality in creating your form, and encircling
action that surrounds with a harmonious atmosphere in attacking theirs.
Be unmindful of the rest.

"The world and all these spiritual powers are drawn up like two sides of
a great game, and when you face all that seething side that is the world,
you wonder how you can go into it and not be dragged down and lost. And
then this great weapon is placed in your hands, this simplification
process, which keeps you on the chair above the crowd, touching them for
a moment by attracting their attention."


3. THE CONSTRUCTIVE FIGHT.

In the last analysis it is the nature of our own inner attitude that will
determine the value of our efforts. As we all know, our daily life is
normally a struggle, a series of oppositions. But a persistent attitude
of service can almost miraculously transform the conflict.

"If you fight to win people," declared the Invisible, "instead of to win
results at their expense, it must become a fight of acquisition."

"Isn't that strange!" cried Betty. "You don't fight to repel or
subdue-that's just a temporary half-won victory. This way you go round
acquiring people. It's an absorbent, acquisitive, releasing sort of
fight. It would be like taking prisoners and setting them free. You
certainly make an effort to get them; you do fight for them. That's very
amusing, going round the world absorbing people for your side. It's a
funny way of fighting. But it is a FIGHT, a distinct fight. Yes, it is a
grand, big fight. It takes so much superior strength on your part.

"It is so important to get rid of the idea of destruction connected with
the fight; and to substitute a constructive fight, doubling the force and
manliness of it, eliminating all the antagonisms. That's a curious thing
to do!"

"It is like the fighting to rescue some one from drowning," explained the
Invisible. "You fight them with strength but without antagonism. Often
people fail in good fights because they cut themselves off from
reinforcements by antagonism."

"Hold on," I begged. "How about righteous indignation? Christ and the
money changers?"

"Certainly," acknowledged the Invisible. "It was a cleansing force. That
is necessary; very necessary. But there is a difference between having
your driving power one of hatred or small antagonisms, and having your
driving power a big constructive thing which requires CLEANSING
destruction.

"Not long ago we stated that in meeting non-receptivity the first
reaction sometimes must be a quickly generated opposition to being
included in its zone of action. Well that often works out in what you
call righteous indignation. It is an instantaneous exposition of your own
standards in opposition to those of a lower and destructive order. That
is part of the big fight and it is a REAL fight! But the whole of your
attention, the SOURCE of your strength, is in reconstruction, not on the
money changers themselves. They just represent the resistance you are to
overcome."

"I can see the clash," added Betty, "but the big idea hovers about and
does not demand the petty gratification that other clashes do."

"Make no mistake about the fight," warned the Invisible. "It is the great
conflict without antagonism. The big things of your war were done more
with attention fixed on the freedom of the world, than by the strength of
hatred of the Germans. There is a difference in the strength you tap and
the channels you open up to carry it when you fight for a cause,
primarily, and not against a people."


4. THE GREAT FORMULA.

"Do not forget how you do it: through strength of desire to serve,
through vigorous encircling action, through overflowing faith, through
vision of reality, through union with spiritual law and purpose, through
understanding of temptation and resistance, through magnifying to each
his own soul. Through all these you find your way to the comprehension of
the divine life."




PART III



APPENDICES


APPENDIX I

The Technique of Communication

1.

We must premise that the source of all this material is a matter for each
to decide for himself. It may originate in Betty-in which case she is
more of a wonder than any of us had supposed. She may, by this mechanism,
tap some wide source of wisdom, some reservoir, some "universal mind."
Or, in this state of divided consciousness she may come into touch with
"race consciousness," the stored or accumulated experience of humankind.
Or, finally, the source may be what it purports to be, distinct
discarnate intelligences. Each is free and welcome to adopt any
hypothesis that appeals to him.

But the material is here: it did not exist before as a formulated thing,
either in our minds or in our reading. It came to us-and still comes-in
the manner I have set down. That much is indubitable fact.


2.

Assuming the source as from invisible intelligences, the technique of the
communication is a fascinating speculation. Early in the game it became
abundantly evident that it is not so simple as talking into a telephone.
In the beginning were inconsistencies in statement; sometimes direct
misstatements and contradictions. There were irrelevant trivialities or
absurdities. There were blank failures to give simple replies to simple
questions. It was almost impossible to get any adequate explanation for
these things. It took considerable faith and perseverance not to have
quit in disgust.

As time went on, we came to various conclusions of our own; and still
later were told a little.

Before taking them up I want to repeat what was said in the main body of
the book: that this whole question of communication seems to be still in
a highly experimental state, on both sides. We have been repeatedly
assured of this by the Invisibles themselves, and we have seen them many
times begin, try out, and abandon different methods and expedients. In
answer to direct question we have been told again and again: "We know
little more about this than you do: we are experimenting." Just as only
certain people here are sensitives, so apparently only certain
specialists there have the knowledge, training or especial equipment to
manipulate the process. Those less skilled, less conservative, more
inclined to try it on anyway, are likely to blunder both in method and
content.

When one sees the pencil moving in automatic writing, or hears the voice
in spoken communication, one asks questions in the expectation of
receiving simple and direct answer, as though the discarnate intelligence
were actually holding the pencil in full control, or were talking as one
talks through a telephone. Except as to the simplest ideas, such accuracy
rarely occurs.* Ordinarily, when one presses for a concrete statement of
fact, or a detailed description of conditions, he gets either evasion, a
flat assurance that the thing is too complicated or difficult to be told,
or else the required details are given but are awkward, absurd, or
contradictory to what has been given elsewhere through other stations
with at least equal authority. Even a simple yes or no is difficult to
elicit.

* I am writing of average experience.

This is especially true of the personal type of thing; which is the usual
approach to these super-normal-not supernatural-matters. If the seeker
sticks at that, he is up a blind alley. It may be all right as a start:
but only as a start.

But if some one appears to be manipulating a pencil, or speaking directly
through another's voice, and if that some one claims identity as a
friend; our first demand is that he prove that identity. How can that
best be done? Naturally by asking him to recall something we both know.
If he is what he purports to be, he ought to be able to remember-and
describe-the old mill by the pond where you used to go swimming together.
And as you are interested in him, you will probably want to know
something about his present conditions and surroundings. So you ask him
that.

What do you get? As to the old mill, indirection, half-hints, small bits,
sidelong approaches. Rarely anything direct and satisfactory. The records
of the various societies for psychical research are full of these slow,
painstaking, fumbling efforts to get across "evidential" messages. Their
synthesis to anything that can be even an approach to satisfaction is a
business for experts. As to your desire to know something of your
supposed friend's conditions of existence, one of two things: either a
vague statement that they are so different from yours that they cannot be
described; or a rash attempt at a picture that is flatly inconsistent
with what somebody else is supposed to have told through some other
station.

Even if some of this strikes you as beyond coincidence; if you are
encouraged to go on because there seems to be the germ of "something in
it," why all the fuss and struggle and indirection? Why not say so, in so
many words?

It is all pretty tough on the common sense. And if, as often happens, you
suddenly find yourself an object of personal attention by Julius Caesar
or Napoleon or William James-he's a favorite--then your innate modesty is
quite likely to join hands with your skepticism. You stop dead in your
tracks. You are fair. There may be something in it, you acknowledge.
There is a residue you cannot explain. But even if it is genuine, it is
too unreliable. How can you tell what to accept and what not to accept?
How can you have any assurance of the value of what is passed out to you?
And if that is John talking, he must have gone off fearfully in his mind.

That, I think, is the reaction of any man who has not already the will to
believe. It would most certainly have been my own, had it not been for
the fact that, even in the earliest days of the actual teaching, part of
what we got was straightforward, logical, progressive, and with purpose.
This carried us through until the confusions disappeared.


3.

But since they did disappear, and the genuineness did establish itself-at
least to us-then it was a logical thought that similar difficulties,
which had caused abandonment in other cases, might be similarly a mask to
something real. If so, it was worth while to speculate on them. I thought
about them a great deal; and I observed Betty in action; and I evolved a
tentative theory that fits well enough the facts in our own case. It will
probably need a lot of modification in detail; but I still believe it
basically sound in principle.

This is what I conceive happens:

The Invisibles have no DIRECT power to manipulate our physical substance,
though at times they may appear to do so. Their ability to levitate
tables, for instance; or to move a pencil in automatic writing; or to
jerk our limbs about; or to appear to speak by direct control of another
all depend on their ability to impress an idea on a portion of the
station's mind. That portion of the station's mind, in turn, so
manipulates the necessary physical mechanism as to approximate the result
desired. This rule I conceive to be invariable.

Now the physical mechanism which is so manipulated by a portion of the
station's mind in accordance-more or less-with the idea impressed on it,
is not necessarily the familiar muscular system. Take the common case of
table tipping or ordinary levitation. The experiments of Crawford,
Schrenck-Notzing, De Rochas, Crookes, Flammarion, Gustave Geley and
others show that this is accomplished by a projection of what they have
named ECTOPLASM, a physical emanation from the body of the station,
capable of considerable extension and rigidity, perhaps capable of
carrying force as a wire conducts electricity. By means of this ectoplasm
the manifestations occur. I may hasten to add that their occurrence
implies PER SE no intervention of any other personality that that of the
station, or-telepathically-the by-standers. Neither does common writing
or speech. Merely it is a physical mechanism, like writing or speech,
though not as familiar to us. It is available, like them, for use by that
portion of the station's mind which receives the intention of the
Invisible. It cannot be manipulated DIRECTLY by the Invisible, any more
than can a pencil or the organs of speech.

The portion of the station's mind with which we are dealing we will have
to call the subconscious. That has become a sort of wastebasket word into
which we dump everything we do not understand, but it will have to do. It
is not a distinctly separate mind from the conscious intellect. They are
both one Mind. It is the submerged portion, the part below the threshold.
In some the threshold is higher or lower than in others; and likewise the
threshold can be raised or lowered by effort and development. This
subconscious portion, broadly speaking, receives impression, idea,
emotion, inspiration, which it lifts to the conscious intellect to be
fitted into expression. It does just that constantly in everyday life.
For example, it is the seat of our "instincts" as we call them. That
aspect of the subject has been so thoroughly treated in so many works on
psychology that elaboration is unnecessary here.

Now this subconscious mind is the only point of contact with the
Invisibles. They cannot affect our physical selves nor our physical
environment except through it. I make this statement in full appreciation
of many phenomena in apparent contradiction. And as they cannot intervene
directly on us physically, so they cannot intervene directly on us as to
our consciously intellectual part. They must impress what they want on
the submerged subconscious of the station, which in turn reports that
impression to the conscious intellect for expression.

At just that point the difficulty lies.

Let us assume a specific case of a sort apparently at variance with this
theory. An Invisible desires to communicate in direct words. The subject
matter, the details, of that communication, are "prepared 17 in such a
manner as to make an impression on the station's subconscious as
accurately as possible. The method of impression is a trifle obscure. We
have been told of it in various ways.

"Recording my thought on your brain," was one at tempt, "How I reach you.
The clearer you understand it, the better you can co-operate. Reckon
first on receptivity. Presuppose receptivity. Without that there is the
merest chance of succeeding. Reckon next on desire from both ends.
Registration is accomplished by means of the mating of sensitized
consciousnesses superimposed; something Eke the making of a color print.

"Roughly speaking, the general preparation which you make through
admitting the possibility of communication is the sensitizing which
admits of the impress from this end. For this reason SYSTEMATIC
preparation or seeking is almost certain to insure results. The
preparation of the plates is your part."

After the impression is received, it must be translated. This is done by
that part of the mind which we use constantly in everyday life, the
intellectual part. (But not, of course, with the conscious knowledge of
the station.) In the case of both automatic writing and spoken
communication it is more or less divorced temporarily from conscious
active thinking, so that the words seem, and are, independent of the
station's will. Nevertheless, that is the part that does the translating.
It must do so in accordance with its equipment. If the equipment is
limited, the translation is limited. One cannot strike typewriter keys
that do not exist. It should be added that in most human beings there
exists vastly more equipment than is ever under conscious control at any
one time. Hypnotism proves this. But nothing beyond that equipment can be
expressed. If an idea totally outside it is offered, it can either be
conveyed only partially and by analogy, or it cannot be conveyed at all.

Consider the case of an absolutely unlettered, untravelled solitary cast
away as a child on a desert island. Bring to his subconscious mind an
accurate impression if, say the essence of modern rapid
transportation-motors, locomotives, airplanes-and demand of his intellect
a report of that impression. He must translate it in terms of the birds
of the air, the beasts of the field, the fish of the sea, or his own two
feet. If any one were present to receive that report, he might get a
highly poetic analogy, but hardly much idea of the reality. And if he had
just come from another island where bullock carts-and nothing else-were
known; with his head full of an authentic "revelation" of winged carts,
or bullocks of incredible swiftness breathing fire and smoke, he would be
justified in throwing up both hands and calling it all bunk.

This matter of translation may be conceived to be one of basic
difficulty. A great deal of distortion also comes in by what we call
"coloring,"-the arbitrary though unintentional intervention of the
station's own thinking mind. That is fairly common, and is pretty well
recognized. The mind seizes a fragment of the genuine impression and, by
association of ideas, goes galloping off with it in the grooves of habit,
constructing out of past experience a more or less coherent statement
that is genuine only in a fragment at inception. At its worst it results
in complete falsity. At its best it modifies and distorts.


4.

Let us now examine the apparent method by which these impressed ideas are
translated by the station.

Everybody is familiar with the type of mind that reacts in conventional
phrase to any common sentiment. We call them "bromides." It is like
touching a button: one knows exactly what to expect. That is the simplest
possible example of what takes place. Certain ideas automatically attract
certain forms of expression. Present the idea and the expression follows.
Betty once said; "Queer how I hunt for words. I have a magnet and the
proper word climbs up." Often she will snap her fingers and cry
impatiently; "Word wanted! Word wanted!"

In the unicellular rudimentary mind-if such can be imagined-there might
be only one expression-response, so that the translation of any certain
ideas would be invariable, even though inadequate. But as a matter of
fact even the most simple-minded station has in store at least a dozen
words any one of which might fit, and all of which report for duty, so to
speak. That happens in everyday life. When it does so happen we have, we
say, to "make a choice of words." It is the same thing here, only there
is not only a choice of words to be made, but also what might be called a
choice of concepts.

In ordinary circumstances this choice is left by the Invisibles almost
entirely to the station. Sometimes it is done deliberately, I believe, in
order to get the gist of the matter over with a minimum of difficulty. In
nine cases in ten, however, in my opinion, the Invisibles cannot help
themselves. The human habit of expression is too strong for them. They
can make the impression, but then the thing runs away from them. This is
especially true with undeveloped or partially developed stations,-people
who suddenly discover a pencil writing for them, and who promptly take
all as gospel that comes to them. The sequence is a premature rushing
into print, with more "basic discrepancies" and attendant bewilderment
and disbelief. For when the matter of translation is wholly or partially
left to the station, it necessarily is tinged with the station's habit of
thought. It becomes ecclesiastic through the formally religious; or fuzzy
through the emotional; or highfalutin' through the sentimental; or even
ungrammatical through the illiterate.

Parenthetically, I see no objection that often these messages are cast in
the first person, as though the Invisible were actually talking directly.
That, too, is a matter of impression. Do not forget that in this choice
of which we are speaking the station takes no conscious part, in the
waking sense of using the will. The choice is made and put into action by
what we call loosely the conscious part of the mind as differing from the
subconscious; but the personality of the station is for the moment more
or less in abeyance. That is what makes the person a station; the faculty
of stepping aside. Here is where our impersonations come in. We are told
solemnly of long and fluent-and ordinarily commonplace-conversations with
Julius Caesar and Plato and Nero and Judas, all of whom seem to be
dwelling in bliss as a Happy Family, and all of whom seem frantically
eager to rush into conference at any hour of the day or night with any
Tom, Dick or Harry who calls them up. William James must be either
ubiquitous or must possess a large corps of secretaries to get around at
all. All a matter of the translation of the impression on the
subconscious. Some little thing reminds the station's mind of Caesar or
Plato or Nero or James: it seizes and personifies that idea, and is off
on a tangent of its own. The subconscious has received from the station
himself an impression deeper than any that can' be given from an outside
source. Even a direct denial of identity on the part of the Invisible, we
can conceive, would not even get over against an IDEE FIXE.

Our own Invisibles were constantly lamenting this tendency of the human
mind to gallop off on its own.

"That, roughly speaking, is all we can say today, they ended a rather
sketchy exposition of something we wanted to know one day. "The trouble
is, we might give you more; but once hinted at or wrongly accepted or
conceived, you would start going with grim determination in some
direction from which we could not divert you. That increases our
difficulties and makes us very cautious how we start your
consciousness-your EARTH consciousness-in any given direction."

Even when the source of impression is from without, how can one be sure
to whom one is talking? One cannot; except through painstaking,
wearisome, minute, evidential work, such as Dr. Hyslop did, and such as
the physical research societies are always busy on. Except of course a
moral certainty when personality is marked and strong. That is why,
except to those who need evidence of survival, personal communication is
so nearly futile. That is why our Invisibles have so insisted on
anonymity, and have so stressed the content of what they have to say. The
case of PROVED identity is not hopeless, but it is difficult.

We have said that the "choice of words" was generally perforce or
intentionally left to the station. We have discussed the perforce. It has
seemed to me also that much of the time the Invisibles have deliberately
refrained from much, if any, supervision. This happens when the station's
equipment is sufficiently adequate to the impression, either because his
habit of mind fits the subject matter, or because he is sufficiently in
harmony with the Invisible to be exquisitely sensitive to refinements of
meaning. That results in great fluency. It is a method most often allowed
when the subject is very general, or of no especial importance, or in
ordinary conversational exchange. What difference, when the impression of
"affectionate paternity" is made, whether that conveys to the station,
and is so translated, Dad or Papa or Governor or whatever? Or whether the
station says, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant," or "Bully
work, old man!"?

But, again, the form of translation may make a great deal of difference.
Then from the flock of words that rises to the magnet of the idea
impressed, the Invisible may make a choice. In Betty's case that choice
is made by elimination, by negation of one after the other that she would
select until the suitable one presents itself. I imagine that is always
the case. The result is more accurate, but it is also more halting. When
an absolutely literal statement is in order,-what we call dictation-it is
very slow. It is slow when Betty reports in her own person what is
supplied her. It is slow when the Invisibles, apparently speaking in
THEIR own persons, desire to make a measured statement. The whole
equipment of the station is at their disposal-vocabulary, experience,
intellectual ideas, habits of mind and phrase, mental reactions, beliefs,
wisdom and knowledge-as the words in a dictionary are at the disposal of
those who would write. These materials are capable of being arranged in
any pattern or sequence, to express in their combination, perhaps,-ideas
entirely unknown to the station. But they can be so arranged only by the
rejection of those not desired from that portion of them that
automatically rises to meet the stimulus of the impression.

To go back to our simple illustration. Let us suppose that in life a son
called his father Daddy, and that for purposes of identification he
desires that this precise diminutive be got over. But the station used to
call his own father Dad. That would first present itself as a suitable
translation of the impression. It would be inhibited by the Invisibles;
as would, in turn, Papa, Father, Governor, Old Man, etc. Then would ensue
what the records call "difficulty." If the station's conscious attention
were roused, failure would result. Yet to the son seeking communication
with his father it would seem an absurdly easy test. How much more
difficult to get over a pet name entirely personal to those who used it:
or, for that matter, names or dates at all! Yet that is a "test" commonly
requested.

A moment's thought will show how this same reasoning applies to other
"tests,"-as a request to know "what we did together May first," or
"describe the house we used to live in," or the like. The Invisible may
impress on the station's subconscious an entirely adequate conception;
but nothing may rise to it that can express accurately necessary details.
It seems that it should be easy to say in so many words that it was a
white colonial house by a millpond. But suppose white houses habitually
mean Italian villas to the station, and water implies a sea or a harbor
by the sea. The matter must be gone into bit by bit from the beginning,
working from generalities to particulars, and resulting at last after
much stumbling in a patchwork, with-if lucky-a few recognizable salient
features.

In all of the foregoing I have purposely instanced the simplest types of
communication. There are many. The most striking and rapid is that in
which the station seems "possessed" by the Invisible, using gestures,
turns of phrase, even tones of voice not his own. It is sometimes
impossible to believe, in spite of the evidence of one's eyes, that
another personality is not before one. Joan, of OUR UNSEEN GUEST, is
wonderful that way.

Nevertheless, as I see it such apparent "possession" is not incompatible
with the hypothesis. Description of the process-impression on the
subconscious; a rising of apposite material for translation to the
conscious; a selection by suppression of all but the exact form
desired-may be likened to a slowed-down moving picture. All the movements
of the action stand out singly and painfully. But in some cases it is
possible that the station may be far enough developed, or so
sympathetically EN RAPPORT with the Invisible, that the film is speeded
up. The mechanism moves as smoothly and promptly as the parts of an
engine. The impress is formed, made, translated, almost in one movement,
as it were; and with that major impression come minor impressions-perhaps
intentionally, perhaps involuntarily-of personality and mannerism. These,
too, the station seizes and translates into speech or action. We have the
impersonation. Yet I believe if Joan's process could be slowed down for
inspection,-as the moving picture is slowed down-it would be found to
comprise the sequence I have outlined in my hypothesis. And even Joan
does slow down at times to the point of the most deliberate and tentative
dictation when some technical matter requiring absolute verbal accuracy
is to be said.

Or take another type, that of the station who pronounces words unknown to
him. Cases have been reported of communications in foreign languages with
which the station was alleged to be unacquainted.* There is no reason why
SOUNDS should not be impressed and translated as well

* As in the celebrated case of Dr. Whynant conversing through an
illiterate station with a purported Chinese sage in an ancient dialect
known only to a few scholars.

as words; and a proper combination of those sounds as syllables would
form words unknown to the station. That would imply an extremely delicate
process, and the development of enormous skill, control, sensitiveness
and receptivity. In principle it should be possible. We are yet at very
crude beginnings. Certainly the little group around Bell, jubilant over
distinguishing faintly a single jumbled sentence across the space of two
rooms, could have had no vision of hearing a whisper four thousand miles.


5.

That brings us back to the specific instance: the development of Betty as
a station. You remember the explanation of the slow and difficult
progress as an attempt to get away from "spontaneous or spasmodic"
phenomena to an "intelligent co-operation." If, on the basis of seventeen
years' experience, I were to indulge in prophecy I should say that the
future of both fluency and accuracy would depend on: (a) development of
the station's sympathetic receptivity so that he will catch the
impressions as rapidly as an engine receives the two or three thousand
sparks a minute that drive it so smoothly and untiringly; (b) the
extension of the station's equipment so that the translation will be both
instantaneous and accurate; (c) the strengthening of the Invisible's veto
power, so that it, too, will act instantly and smoothly to depress all
the words that rise to the magnet of the idea save the one desired. Then
we should have true communication. The Invisible may then be said to
control directly, in the same sense that we control directly the forming
of words with a pencil. WE do not drive the pencil: the hand does it,
controlled by and obedient to ourselves.

Of the points mentioned above, the receptivity is perhaps a matter of
personal equipment. Stations seem to be naturally "sensitive"-to a
greater or smaller degree-while other people are not. But I am not sure
that the potentiality does not exist latent in mankind as a race: and it
is indubitable that a natural sensitive may develop to greater and
greater efficiency. The third consideration, of course, is not in our
hands.

But the second deserves a moment's attention. The development of the
station is one of the big things of the future. A preponderance of the
results we have attained have been by means of the raw material, so to
speak.

Part of the intelligent co-operation lies in our second point-the
equipment of the station. It grows not only by the fullness of the life
he leads on earth, including his education, his reading, and his
experience of wisdom, but also it grows tremendously by the very
translation he makes and by his experience with the Invisibles-provided
that is intelligent and co-operative. The new patterns they turn out of
old things become magically new things that may in turn be used for fresh
patterns. That is the essence of what we call "psychic development," and
it is capable of an extension without limit, infinitely beyond the
expansions of life as we know it. It is in this that our hope lies for
the future, our hope of reaching out into a fullness of knowledge we can
never attain through the contacts and experiences provided us by the
world we see and hear and touch and taste and smell.


6.

That, in brief, is my working hypothesis. I do not delude myself with the
idea that it is in any way a finished one, or that it covers completely
all the variations of delicate adjustment. But at present I do believe
that it represents the root of the matter; and that those variations
spring from it; that it is the focal point from which the whole subject
spreads fanwise. I offer it as a glimpse, in the hope that the vigorous,
exploring, new young era that began with the close of the war will find
it at least a scaffolding from which to construct.

Since formulating it, some time in 1920, I have observed nothing to cause
me to change its essentials. Indeed those essentials have been
corroborated by direct statements, too voluminous to include here. One
alone I shall quote, because it was addressed to beginners.

We were discussing first "messages," and were wondering why-assuming in
them SOME genuine content, they were generally so inconsequential.

"The content of first messages, through new stations," we were told, "is
important only as it serves to retain interest and does not discourage by
too complete irrelevancy. We are rarely at first attempting to say
anything. We are merely trying to get a reaction to stimulus.

If this could be fully understood, it would be as effective to convey a
single irrelevant word,-or, indeed, mere meaningless sounds. From our
point of view the whole importance of a considerably extended period of
first work is in the reaction to any impression on the part of the
station. Often in a long alleged message a small phrase, a single word,
or even a solitary syllable or sound is all that that actually emanates
from us. The rest of the message, so-called is a mere carrying out of
what the station him self unconsciously imagines to be the purport. That
minute response is, however, completely satisfactory to us, as it
indicates success in actually impinging upon our neophyte's receptivity.
We have no particular concern with the rest of it, unless, as I said at
first, it may affect the probability of an abandonment of the experiments
because of nonsense or discrepancy or contradiction. Since our, major
interest is thus fixed upon the PROCESS, while your interest is naturally
fixed on the CONTENT, our aims must at first be divergent. And since at
first we see the trend of progress, while you do not, we are naturally
reluctant to divert our purpose any more than is absolutely necessary.

"Therefore we give our attention and force to complete accuracy or to the
production of what you call evidential only when our hand on the pulse of
your interest or belief indicates a slowing down, below the danger point.
Our object, you see, is to develop an instrument of receptivity capable
of something more worth while than could be possible in crude beginnings.

"Now we try to start, naturally, with the apparatus that is most simple,
both in manipulation and in range, that it is possible to devise. The
simplest of all is of course a single reaction, a single impulse,
resulting in a single phenomenon. We tip a table according to an almost
childish prearrangement, or cause you to thrust a thing about in a
limited number of directions, like the ouija board. These manipulations
require, as one might say, a mere touch on a button.

"Generally the next stage is coherent language, generally through
automatic writing. This requires, however rapid it may seem, the choice
among only twenty-six different things.* You will notice, if you remember
your experience, that after a little and at times, you occasionally
anticipated a whole word in your own minds, a fraction of a second before
it was put down. That was a merging into the next step. But the first of
automatic writing was-in process slowed down-an impression of one out of
twenty-six things only.

* The letters of the alphabet.

"This, you can understand, was quite a different matter and a much easier
matter than selecting one out of the several thousand things which
constitutes your vocabulary equipment. The latter is what must be done in
the case of even fairly developed spoken communication.

"There is a curious reciprocity about this relationship. We can only
reach-take advantage of effort, and you have to supply the effort. We
generally in the beginning have to snatch at chance effort. You happen to
be at a friend's house tipping a table. There is our chance. But we might
shout at you ten years. Try every technique you hear about, provided that
if it does not seem promptly to work, you will not become discouraged
with the whole business. There are no two things in the universe
absolutely alike. In coarser adjustments wider dissimilarities will
respond to identical method. As the adjustment becomes finer the
individual differences exercise more influence, and the method must cease
to be standard and itself become individual. When this is the case,
careful and slow experiment is necessary, ON BOTH SIDES, until the method
is determined."




APPENDIX II



Experiments with the Spiritual Body


Betty's "mediumship" has never emphasized physical phenomena. That is
something else, apparently, with which we have little or nothing to do.
Only once, in our seventeen years' experience have we even assisted,
actively, in their production. And even then our inclusion had a direct
connection with the teaching, in that it seemed to be directed toward
some sort of proof of the actuality of the spiritual body.

It happened that, in the early part of 1922, we had a rather unusual
opportunity. From various parts of the country happened to be gathered in
New York, for a month, a group of people known to each other as personal
friends, three of whom were gifted, like Betty, as sensitives; and the
rest interested, like myself, from an unemotional standpoint. Strangely
enough none of us had at that time read much concerning the physical
phenomena of psychics. We had little knowledge of what had been done; and
no preconceived notions of what to expect. After the show was all over we
were surprised that certain trained investigators found some of our
results so remarkable. We had found them exciting and interesting, and
loads of fun! But at the end of our month I think our predominant feeling
was of regret that we could not go on and really get somewhere!

We had, then, a newspaper man and his wife: I will call them Mr. and Mrs.
Gaines. Also a business man in foreign trade and his wife: I will call
him Cass. Then there was still another couple, both of them active in
professional life. And, of course, Betty.

Mrs. Gaines, we had discovered in the course of our friendship with them,
was possessed of a considerable degree of this peculiar sensitivity.

Cass's wife was Margaret Cameron, whose book THE SEVEN PURPOSES was at
that time in its height of popularity.

The professional couple were the anonymous authors of OUR UNSEEN GUEST-so
deeply anonymous that even their closest friends did not know of their
identity. In their book they called themselves "Darby and Joan," so we
will do so here.

Now here were eight people, all of whom by temperament and training were
practical, hard-headed, and known to each other as of unquestioned
integrity; and four of them had demonstrated this peculiar power, each in
a different fashion. The extraordinary content of THE SEVEN PURPOSES had
been conveyed largely in huge automatic writing in full consciousness.
Mrs. Gaines, also conscious, spoke from a revery-like condition of a
rather lovely sensitivity. Joan, in contrast, fell into a trance state so
deep that she had no consciousness whatever of what went on; no
subsequent recollection of it; and no sense of time. So far as she knew,
she might have been "out" four minutes or four hours. Betty's method has
been described.

We all had these things in common; we were much interested in this new
exploration; we took it "lightly," in the sense that we did not stand in
awe of it, nor consider any of its aspects "sacred," and were able to
have a lot of fun with it; we knew each other, and had complete
confidence in each other as friends; we had no axes to grind,
emotionally, in the way of publicity, or in any other manner. Curiously
enough we were at that time singularly innocent of any connection, mental
or practical, with organized research; we knew nothing of professional
mediums!

The whole combination was so unique that we could not fail to take
advantage of it.

"Four-count 'em-four under one tent!" cried someone. "Let's work them
tandem. I wonder if it's ever been done?"

In that spirit we tried them tandem. At once it was evident that
something interesting was going to come out of it. As Margaret Cameron
lived in New York, we arranged to get together as often as we could at
her house on Eleventh Street.

There we met, generally in the evening, sometimes in the afternoons,
eleven times in all, between the dates of December 31 and January 28,
when it was necessary to scatter to our various homes. From the first the
Invisibles took definite and purposeful charge. We had no faintest hint
or preconception of what to expect. The actual work was done sometimes by
one of our stations, sometimes by another, sometimes by various
combinations of the four. Generally Joan and Betty were the leading
performers-the "positive poles," they were called; with Margaret and Mrs.
Gaines assisting as the "negative poles."

The locale was an ordinary drawing room. From first to last no especial
apparatus was used, except a dull-finished dark cloth over a screen as a
background; and an ordinary Brownie dark room lantern. From the latter we
removed the red slide, and substituted for its electric light, globes of
from fifteen to twenty five watts in various tints. By a process of
elimination the Invisibles finally hit on a lilac glass as the most
useful. At all times there was plenty of illumination so that every
detail of the room was plainly visible. Indeed, as will be seen, some of
the experiments were repeated in daylight. However, white light did not
seem the most favorable.

Most of the phenomena were observed by all those present not actively
engaged in their production, and were checked off by comparison both at
the time and afterwards. Those actively engaged in the production, as a
general thing, saw nothing, or got merely fragmentary glimpses. There was
no emotional excitement. Even surprise soon wore itself thin. The human
mind is remarkably adaptable that way. After the first ten minutes even
the sight of the first airplanes in flight became almost commonplace. As
the experiments extended over so long a period of time we came very
shortly to examine their results in a mood of almost hypercriticism.

The principal operators from the other side were the Doctor and Stephen,
who gave the philosophy of OUR UNSEEN GUEST; Anne, a Scotch-woman; and
Joe, the son of the newspaper man before-mentioned as one of our group.
There were apparently many others busy and interested, but the
aforementioned appeared to be in charge. All of the sessions were alike
in that the serious experimental work was lightened by much rapid
interchange and by some intentionally amusing interludes. In my account,
however, I am for the sake of brevity focusing on the object in hand.

The first and second meetings were devoted to preliminary explanations
which can be epitomized as follows:

Both mind and body are the human manifestations of one reality, the human
consciousness. The body is the material manifestation of the sort of
consciousness that is human. The mind is the link between the body and
what we call the spirit, or cosmic germ. The spirit or cosmic germ, the
actual I AM of the individual, itself has a definite body, with weight,
form, color, substance.

We have, of course, demonstrated the existence of the mind and the
physical body. It remains to demonstrate the actual existence of this
other, or Beta, body as a tangible and definite, not merely a symbolical
thing. That demonstration, we were told was the intention of the
projected experiments.


2. THE THIRD MEETING

We found that the best we could do was a bi-weekly meeting. On the
occasion of the next (third), we naturally expected a continuation of the
explanations, and were somewhat puzzled by an apparent hitch in the
proceedings. When Joan and Betty were put under,* Betty remarked that she
felt confident "We'll get a long way tonight." But there seemed no start.
Finally Joan said:

"It is cold around my ankles."

Betty advised her to "prance around a little."

"It's not that"; said Joan, "IT'S SOMETHING GONE OUT."

A long pause ensued.

"Perfectly tremendous, the current through my arm," observed Betty at
last (the two clasped hands when "out"), "like a tremendous force going
through. Not a word: but it's terrific."

Joan made motions as though writing. We offered her pencil and paper but
nothing important came. Finally I asked whether we should try to get
speech, or should let it alone.

"I think it is too strong," returned Betty. "GOT to let it alone. The
force is very strong."

Suddenly, after another long and silent interval Joan cried out sharply:

"Pinch it! Feel the cold stratum."

The cold stratum was readily distinguished, extending some inches above
the floor. It was so unmistakably cold that it struck through our shoes.
The effect was not unlike that of a wintry draught along the floor of an
old fashioned house. In three things it differed: it had not been
apparent five minutes before; it ceased to be apparent five minutes
thence; its upper limits were sharply defined. I

* Throughout all these experiments both were heavily and thoroughly
blindfolded.

Betty was evidently also involved in the production of this-as indeed all
subsequent phenomena,-for at this point she said:

"Have to take it slowly because I'm just a little sick. I'm doing work
for two, and it makes me just a little sick."

"Pinch it," repeated Joan, speaking with great difficulty. We did not
instantly understand, "Me," she repeated, "Me away; me, out there where
it's cold."

Darby caught the idea of what was wanted, and pinched the air about four
feet from Joan, but a little to her rig lit.

"Not there. In front of me," stammered Joan, "Not so high; I'm not so
high."

Darby again pinched the air; this time in front of her and about on a
level with her knee. Instantly her left leg winced back as though it had
itself been pinched. He repeated the experiment at the level of her
waist: her hand flew to her head. Successive trials seemed to show that
points of sensitiveness existed at a distance from Joan's physical body
corresponding in location to the parts of the physical body; but
apparently on a somewhat smaller scale. That is to say, when one pinched
the air at the floor, the reaction was in her ankles; at the waist level,
the reaction was in the head; and at various points between, the
shoulder, hand, knee or other part jerked back as though in pain. When
these points had been sufficiently determined, Joan sighed and said in a
relieved voice:

"Now I can go back!"

The Professor*-through Joan-next attempted to resume the discussion; but
Joan was not in tune as yet after her effort at what we concluded was an
actual projection of the Beta-herself. He made, however, one statement
that was important.

"The subconscious," said he, "is to the Beta what the conscious is to the
physical."

The difficulty for a time seemed insurmountable.

"Please ask questions," spoke up Stephen* suddenly, "Difficulty with this
form of communication. Cannot get a clear channel, but think we can
interest this brain if you will stimulate from outside."

* Our designation of one of the invisible entities.

"Father, ask her some questions-anything," struck in Joe.

"What is the Beta?" accordingly asked Gaines.

"The actual invisible substance which you have for long termed soul or
spirit," replied Joe promptly.

"Does it weigh anything'?

"Yes."

"Are there scales fine enough to weigh it?"

"Yes. If you had had her on a scales tonight, you could have had the
weight of the Beta. It would have been the difference between the weight
of the normal body, and that body after the cold had gone out into the
room. Darby pinched the Beta."

"What is the cold I often feel near or about me?" asked Margaret Cameron.

"It is your own Beta going out in response to a magnetic call of another
consciousness to your own."

"But it often happens when I am alone," objected Margaret.

"There is always another consciousness present," Joe assured her.

"Don't forget," he continued, "the main thing we want to get over to you
while you are all together is an actual physical demonstration of the
existence of the Beta. You remember the other day she told you what my
body looked like: she described the type of substance. We are not sure we
can show you a Beta, because it requires a condensing of her Beta, and
perhaps of ours and also a strengthening of your retinas. But we want to
tell you our hopes so you can help us. Faith a thing is going to happen
helps."

That was all of importance for that evening. In explanation of Joe's
remark we must here record that at the first session Joan broke into the
discussion by wandering off, and was with some difficulty brought back to
the point. During that excursion she apparently saw someone with whom she
insisted on talking.

"Protoplasm? " she remarked then, "This substance, you say, is a step
beyond?" She turned and spoke to us, "Now this man I'm talking to; he has
a perfectly good body. You can't see through it. It seems to be more or
less illuminated from within though not with the effect of
phosphorescence-He says the nearest thing to it on our plane of
manifestation is a microscopic analysis of protoplasm.

This is stronger, lighter, more plastic. It is just beyond the humanly
visible sight. It isn't a fluid, quite, because it keeps form. A fluid
does not keep form. He says that the thing he is the thing we term our
soul: that it has form on earth: that we have it; that the only way it
differs from our physical body is that we don't see it. It is beyond our
retinal registration. It has color too."

"Could we touch it? Is it perhaps that cold feeling?" asked Darby.

"Yes. However, it is so plastic that you could not pick it up in your
physical hand." said Joan.

"lf it maintains form, why is it not broken up when I happen to put my
hand through it, for example," queried Darby.

"No more than smoke. That does not maintain form; it merely assumes form.
This does both. These people are plastic. The other man could go through
a wall, could go through you."

"Interstices: Magnetization of interstices," put in Betty.

"Matter, as you know it on earth, is nothing but a ganglion of stress
points. Consequently these plastic forms which have more power than you
have over your physical hands,-they sort of seem to flow-they walk, yes,
but-"

"Come back: get on the main point." urged Betty.


3. THE FOURTH MEETING

The fourth session began by a request from Joe.

"Would you mind turning off the top lights? " he asked. We did so,
leaving the room illuminated by four sidewall brackets "I wish you would
test the temperature near her left arm."

No change there seemed apparent. Betty said to wait.

"Always before," explained Joe, "we have only been able to get her to
release her Beta through the lower extremities, for some reason or other,
but this time it is coming out almost normally. It is simply sliding out
from her point by point exactly as she is. Watch for the cold all over
her. You will probably find nothing around the head. We can't manage that
yet, but the arms, breast, ankles, knees and hands ought to show
tonight."

Darby and Gaines now reported cold emanations from Joan distinctly
recognizable, especially about the right knee. I was taking notes at a
small table over which a drop light in a reflector shade had been lowered
at the end of a cord. The heat from this was considerable. All at once
the space between the light and the paper seemed to me to turn cold, and
I mentioned my impression. The others verified it. This cold area over
the paper persisted for perhaps three or four minutes; then was
withdrawn. Immediately the focused heat from the electric light became
apparent again.

"Why did you have us turn down the top lights?" asked Gaines.

"They squinched her-and me," explained Joe.

Margaret, Cass and Mrs. Gaines now reported definite areas near
themselves; all of which seemed plainly evident to us. The quality of
cold was a good deal like that felt from the rapid evaporation of
menthol, and seemed to have sharply defined limits. That is, the line of
change from the tepid air of the room to the cold area could be detected
within an inch or so.

"Why is the cold everywhere about the room?" asked Darby.

"It is not all from the same source." Joe replied, "It is all of us, an
intensification. There are fifty or so here: like sardines. It is her and
us. She is playing around with us and having a good time. She may tell
you about it later, if you want her to. Just now she is completely out,
and I am using her material body; not as fluently as the Lady
Anne.*--Watch her right arm. A cord is attached there. It is not a
muscular motion at all. Somebody examine it."

* The Scotswoman.

During all this, Joan's forearm had been resting along the arm of her
chair. The hand, partly open, hung inside the chair arm. It was now
agitated by a quivering so rapid as to be almost a vibration. The
physical impossibility of producing so rapid a motion by an effort of the
will we immediately demonstrated by trying it ourselves. Darby and
Gaines, after examination, reported that all the muscles of the arm were
absolutely flaccid, without the slightest tension. Furthermore, they
discovered under the palm of the hand a thin cold streak. When they
pinched this, Joan shrank as though in pain.

"You remember that verse about 'The golden cord is loosed'? That is the
golden cord," said Joe. "We could take her anywhere while that cord is
attached."

We were not quite sure we understood this.

"Do you mean that attachment would stretch enough to permit of her being
taken to California, for example?" asked Mrs. Gaines.

"Anywhere. Anywhere in the universe," assured Joe, "That cord could be
loosed by no human agency, except through a vital organ. It can be loosed
only when the time comes."

"Then nothing we might do, no clumsiness could break it?" queried Darby.

"No. No human agency could possibly loose that cord.

"We want to get this Beta. Tonight we are working more with the two
stations than with you. It is to get them out and teach them to release
completely, not to hold back. It is a purely physical, though internal
thing."

"Can you chat with us at the same time, and not interfere with that
work?" I asked.

"Sure," said Joe, "talk ahead." *

* It should perhaps have been stated before that the report of all these
discussions is absolutely verbatim.

"As I understand it," said I, "This physical proof of the Beta is to be
made not only to us on one occasion, but is to be repeatable at will, so
it can be examined scientifically and at leisure?"

"That is what we are after, absolutely." said he. "One of the first
proofs will be a very delicate thermometer to determine the cold."

"How prove that this repeatable demonstration of the Beta is not merely
physiological?" objected Darby.

"In this way," he replied, "The Beta emanating from a physical body on
your plane brings with it a quality of magnetism which we on our plane
have passed beyond. This Beta, coming out, intensifies ours. Like
voltage; you can intensify a current. This body coming out with its
physical magnetism intensifies the others about it. Now we want to
produce several Betas. Indeed we have already done so here. You have
found three distinct personalities of intense coldness; one by Margaret,
one by Stewart, and one near Cass. If we could get them sufficiently
intensified, you could see, in addition to a nimbus around Joan, three
other pillars or nimbuses. Would not you then be reasonably satisfied
that there were three other Betas present?"

"How would we know that these three other nimbuses did not emanate from
Joan?" persisted Darby.

"Because when you pinch the Beta of Joan you get a physical reaction from
her: and if you pinch the other Betas from now to doomsday you will get
no physical jerks from anybody. It would then be reasonable to suppose
that those Betas belong to someone discarnate."

"Would this affect a compass?" asked Gaines.

"Probably: I am not sure. It would possibly whirl it." "A radiometer?"

"Yes."

"And how about the test for weight?"

"There are two procedures. Weigh Joan before going under and after the
Beta is out,--before and after taking. Then perhaps you can find some
scales delicate enough to set them in the cold spots."

"How delicate?"

"Fairly so. But you might try it with common scales. We do not know
ourselves, simply because we haven't done it either. It will be a
difference in ounces rather than pounds.

"Next I want you to get a very dull dark room lantern, one that gives a
very small amount of light. Certain colors are intensified by red, and
others by blue or green. Get three sets of slides for the lantern, red,
blue and green, to help your human vision so you can see the spots of
cold."

Soon after he again asked us to test the cold around Joan. Darby and
Gaines, after some search reported a clearly defined cold stratum, or
thread, apparently only a few inches wide, extending from Joan's right
hand straight out into the room.

"Try to find the other end of this cord of cold." urged Joe.

The cord was traced about eight feet in Margaret's direction.

"It is not a connection to Margaret," said he, "It is simply that Joan's
body is out, and the cord goes to it. I want to establish the cord."

"Here is the Professor," said Joan.

"If this Beta is physically proved," I asked, "would not that as a
corollary be a strong proof of communication; better than the personal
identification method?"

"Yes; but not quite in the way you think," replied the Professor, "It is
going to be a dovetailing process rather than a straight line. The thing
that we have to establish is not only the existence of the Beta as a part
of the human physiology, but the existence of my Beta."

"The Beta has been demonstrated before, has it not?' asked Darby.

"Not demonstrated in modem science, and only in isolated cases. It has
been demonstrated, surely; but not by such abnormally normal people,"
concluded the Professor.

Under advice the two stations were now brought out for a short recess.
When they were again put under, Joe resumed the explanation.

"Let's get the discussion back to the relation of the Beta to the
physical and the effect you, through your wills, can have on it," he
began, "We are doing two things at once here now, and it would help if
you would ask questions."

"In going around the indicated series of conscious mind, subconscious
mind, physical body, and Beta," suggested Darby, "why not go direct from
physical to mental and be done with it? The Beta is being postulated."

"Because," replied Joe, "there is more to it than from the mental to the
physical. You are disturbed because you have never actually given the
spiritual a place in existence, and it has a place. IT IS A THING. Can
you imagine the difference between your being, your animation and your
physical body? There's a distinct difference."

"The body, the brain and the ME are all distinct, but-" began Darby.

"You haven't defined them properly," Joe interrupted, "You are in the
dark because you have not known that the ME is a body, too."

"The ME has a body; it isn't a body," countered Darby. "The ME as a Beta,
that ME goes on," insisted Joe, "You have an awareness of the ME that
many human persons haven't. You have developed that peculiar attitude.
You glimpsed the ME, and you consciously developed the ME. Your above and
below the threshold are not so far above or below as most. That is why
you consciously are so definitely aware of the ME."

"Admitting the reasonableness of the Beta," said Darby, "in the
philosophy it is postulated; but it is quite a postulation, and you are
trying to give us a sense perception of it. But why communication with
the reservoir, the oversoul should have to come through the Beta is too
much for me. Why not through our real inner self direct, instead of
through a mere attribute?"

"You don't. You get it through the subconscious, which is to the Beta
what the conscious is to the physical. Can your mind communicate with
anyone about it without the intervention of your body, through the
physical formation and expulsion of words or symbols? All are more
closely linked up than you have thought. All consciousness has form just
as you have form."

"So we actually get in touch with a discarnate through a body?" was
Darby's question.

"Exactly. We have form, weight, color, and more senses than you have."

"Isn't it necessary to have a notion of the force basis of all matter?"
suggested Gaines.

"Matter is only a ganglion of stress points," stated Joe.

"Then my Beta is my individual bunch of that consciousness," added
Gaines.

"The Beta is the form attribute of the consciousness which is you. The
subconscious is to the Beta what the conscious mind is to the physical.
It is the everlasting. It is that form attribute that goes on. The spirit
is really the subconscious, if you want to get down to fine points.

"Suppose it were possible to take your Beta and stand it alongside you.
Then there would be you as you know yourself; your Beta; the conscious
mind; and the subconscious mind. They are all actual things. To be sure,
as I am now, the Beta and the subconscious mind are more real to me than
the conscious mind and the physical body are to you now."

"Let us take the Beta out. Here it stands and here the physical.
Connected with the Beta is the subconscious; with the physical the
conscious. Where is the person?" asked Darby.

"In the Beta," replied Joe.

"But it isn't the Beta though?" persisted Darby, "The Beta is also the
shell of the real person?"

"The Beta is the form attribute," was the answer, "All consciousness has
form. The physical is the form attribute that comes with physical birth
only. There are many worlds, but only one earth."

"Is there any difference between the essential me and my Beta?" put in
Margaret.

"No, not really," Joe assured her.

"Is the Beta an agglomeration of strew points in the force which is the
me?" was Gaines' next contribution to the discussion.

"Not in the same sense as the physical. There is a difference in kind.
You have the same body as I have, and an outer covering which I have
discarded as a disintegrating shell. The difficulty is in words. For
instance, I have a hand. You could not separate my hand from me and have
me go on living. You have a physical hand that you could separate from
you and still go on living.

"Don't forget the subconscious mind.

"The physical body is made up of atoms. Each of these atoms is an
individual consciousness, and each of them has a form. The Beta is not
made up of any such; not in the way the physical is made up. The Beta is
elemental; atomic, but not infinitesimal."

"The physical body is not our form in any sense?" queried Darby.

"Your Beta is the form of you. Get the difference between form and
shape," answered Joe. "I have to tell you things in terms you know. It
would do no good to tell you in Sanskrit. Our terminology we use here
would do no good. We have to do as well as we can in the substance in
which we have to work.

"The Beta influences physical form. Have you never heard the phrase, 'The
eyes are the windows of the soul?' The shape of your face, or your nose
or lips would not be governed by your Beta; but the expression of your
eyes, your own expression, the atmosphere radiating from you, the
personality are controlled by the Beta."


4. THE FIFTH MEETING

Having thus given us a fairly clear idea of what was to be attempted, the
fifth session was largely devoted to experiment. The two stations, after
being put under, talked a moment or so to each other. Joan said to hurry
up, that she had a long way to go; and that she felt a strong breeze
blowing. Betty asked for time to make arrangements; said she had to get
her feet planted firmly. Then they fell silent and we waited.

Suddenly Joan held her right hand up flat and vertical.

"I can't turn my hand over," she said; then with an effort turned it to
the horizontal. "I can't hold it this way," she added, "I've got to put
it back"; and returned it to the vertical.

Then for nearly ten minutes she wriggled the fingers of that hand,
sometimes very rapidly, but generally very slowly; sometimes all
together, sometimes one at a time.

"There's a question of procedure," Betty broke the silence, "Isn't
settled yet.-There are two things unsettled. Don't be impatient. I'm
getting strength for something."

"What we are trying to do is to get her to allow the Beta to go out at
each of her fingers so you can see the emanations.-I think you can see it
now, if you squinch your eyes," suddenly said an Invisible, probably Joe.

We squinched our eyes, and saw a faint smoke-like emanation from the ends
of the fingers. This increased in density so that shortly everyone in the
room could see it plainly with the eyes normal. It was a fine bluish
smoke, much like cigarette smoke, but with apparently a slight
phosphorescent tinge. The ordinary electric lights were on in the room.
This and the succeeding phenomenon were seen by everybody, and in most
cases from several angles; at distances of, from six to eight feet, to a
close examination within a few inches. After everybody had determined
this, a forearm began to form parallel to and about five or six inches
above Joan's physical forearm. This was much of the visual character of
the secondary image one sees when looking closely into a mirror-the
surface glass reflection supplemental to the brilliant mirror reflection.
For perhaps three or four seconds the wrist and hand were also visible to
some of us. All present, however, saw the forearm, which lasted for
perhaps two minutes or so.

"This test," Joe told us, after the emanation had gone, "is the best
possible because it took place under normal light and conditions." He
paused.

"Wait for directions," said Betty, "Wait a minute; this is expert work.
Space is being made."

"Now remember," Joe urged, "that anything that may happen is normal and
natural. No matter what happens don't be frightened or astonished. Try
the red light."

The ordinary electrics were turned out and a darkroom globe turned on.
There was considerable difficulty in getting this adjusted so the light
was properly cast, and much talk and moving to and fro. There seemed to
be difficulty as to some one thing, for Betty kept making remarks to the
effect that an element was lacking. At length we were instructed to look
at Joan's knees. The effect observed was of voluminous tenuous clouds of
rising vapor or smoke. This was not seen at all by Darby, and in varying
degrees by the others. Gaines and I apparently got it the strongest. It
was as indubitable and physical in appearance as was the smoke of the
first experiment, to those who saw it. At the conclusion of the
experiment Joe said that different people's eyes reacted differently to
different colors of light. That, for example, Darby was evidently blind
to these emanations in red light.

It was somewhat analogous to color-blindness.

"We have at least shown," Joe continued, "that we can produce the Beta on
the physical plane for your investigation. The next time I want a dead,
dense, shadowless, dark screen; and I want her to sit in a black chair.
Get various colored lights, not higher than twenty-fives."

"The thing was so successful in ordinary light, why confuse our eyes with
these colors?" asked Margaret.

"The violet ray has an intensifying quality," explained Joe, "and you can
get the same results from a small voltage through purple paper. Get red,
green, blue and white. An orange light might produce black. Might try
that: it might do. By George, Dad, I'd try that, I believe!"

Somebody said we could drape the folding screen that stood in the other
corner for the next experiment.

"How many panels has your screen?" Joe enquired, (Somebody said four)
"Place it around on three sides of her, so as partly to enclose her.
Let's try it now."

This was done under the blue light. Again we thought to discern a
luminosity at the indicated point, but not distinctly or indubitably
enough to make the observation of any value.

"Weel, guid evening to ye all! " Anne unexpectedly appeared, "It was a
grand party. Ye did na see much, but it was a guid start in mair ways
than one."

"Did you not tell us, Anne, sometime ago, that people at
'materializations' really saw the Beta of the medium, shaped by her
thought to resemble someone else?" asked Darby.

"That," replied Anne, "is ORDINARILY true. But I didna tell ye it were
impossible to see the Beta of the other person. It depends on the
conditions; on the receiving station, the strength of the current; on
many things we will talk over together."

"Is the emanation from the tips of the fingers an emanation going on with
us all the time? " enquired Gaines.

"No," was Anne's answer. "It were the Beta which we showed ye."


5. THE SIXTH MEETING

For the sixth meeting the four-paneled screen had been covered with a
dead black material, as were also the chairs in which the stations were
to sit. We had also procured electric globes of from ten to twenty-five
watts, colored red, green, lilac and orange, respectively. Mrs. Gaines
was unable to be present.

After some waiting, and with the same manipulation of the hand, the
smoke-like substance rose again, first from Joan's thumb, then from all
her fingers. At length a complete outline of a dim double hand was
visible. This was about four inches above and to the left of the physical
hand.

"Any sensation?" Betty then demanded.

Darby approached and touched the double; but not the physical hand. Joan
winced and cried out.

This was evidently considered satisfactory for this phase of the
experiment; for we were now told to try the different colored lights. The
experiment thus far had been under the ordinary white lights of the room.
Accordingly we inserted the various colored globes one at a time. Betty
described the green fight as "sharp and acid"; the orange light as
"glarey"; but seemed content with the lilac, which she said was "soothing
and plenishing." * When we went on with the other colors, she insistently
demanded the lilac back again. We ended by using it customarily. It was
of twenty-five watt power, very light in shade, and gave a good strong
illumination in which every detail in the large room could be
distinguished.

* It must not be forgotten that both stations were always heavily
blindfolded.

The outline of Joan's forearm now began to lose its sharpness. It became
hazy, much in the effect of a soft focus lens. Shortly an even emanation
or nimbus began to form along the entire forearm, radiating perhaps two
inches from the flesh. Its appearance in substance was like a
greenish-bluish glow of phosphorescence; but had a depth and softness
that phosphorescence does not possess. It is probable that the color was
influenced by the lilac light. This nimbus defined itself to produce a
double of the forearm, as in the previous session.

Joan now asked Margaret to draw nearer. Margaret took her position about
four feet from Joan, and slightly to her night and in front of her. After
a few moments Margaret extended both hands toward Joan. After-wards she
said that she was impelled to do so by the same recognizable force that
used to move her hand in the automatic writing. She also reported that
she attempted to lean forward in her chair, but was pushed back by the
same type of force to lean against the back. Her hands and arm had the
sensation of being upheld, not by any support beneath, nor suspension
from above, but by drawing force at the ends of the fingers, as though
cords were attached there. That this support had physical value was amply
proved by the length of time she held both arms fully extended without
fatigue. The same nimbus-like phenomenon, though in a lesser degree, was
now observed about her hand. Anne began to talk, and give brief
directions. Between Joan's hand and Margaret's two hands a band of the
same lucent fog formed, about four to six inches wide, a sort of luminous
connection between the two. Then Anne urged "the lasses to shake hands
for the lads." The lucence in more condensed form emerged about three or
four inches from Margaret's hand, and about a foot and a half from
Joan's, but not sufficiently to span the space between. Anne urged
Margaret sharply and repeatedly to "let it go." Finally she gave that up,
and told them to "play ball." First Margaret, then Joan, turn about, made
the motion of tossing something to the other. This caused a flash (the
word is intended to express the speed, not the appearance; which had none
of the bright quality of a true flash) of this same lucence to pass
between them. The effect was much that of the light from an automobile's
spot light crossing a room, provided again the element of hard brilliancy
were eliminated. It is to be noted that this was not to be seen at every
tossing motion. We caught it distinctly about once in three.

Next an indeterminate but voluminous mass of the same material slowly
formed above Joan's forearm, or near to her right side. Betty said that
an attempt would be made to show Joan's Beta, or a manifestation of one
phase of it. The general shape of a form became visible, but the whole
thing was more a mass in certain proportion than a form. The head was not
defined. About this stage Anne instructed us to bring them out and take a
rest.

After about ten minutes both were put under again. Anne instructed Joan
to stand up, still holding Betty's hand. She did so, and the chair was
removed. Slowly the right side of her body became indistinct in outline,
although apparently there was more reflected light behind on the right
side than on the left. The body blended in the usual lucence. This also
showed abundantly above her head. It spread until practically the whole
area surrounding her was filled with it. A darkness next formed about two
feet away to her right, similar in appearance to the "coal hole" in the
milky way. At first it made a streak perhaps thirty inches broad right
through the lucence, but shortened until the top of it was level with
Joan's head. The entire figure of the body following the outline of the
right side, including head and forearm, now formed, exactly in appearance
like the forearm second image of the first night of these experiments.
Cass, Darby and I remarked at the same instant that the face was slightly
in profile. The figure was constant, but the profile was out and in; that
is to say, it appeared and disappeared momently. Anne instructed someone
to "pinch her." I pinched this second body at various points, and got
quick and strong reactions from Joan's physical body (about eighteen
inches distant) from corresponding points-knee, arm, shoulder, head.

The Beta was strongly drawn toward Margaret, and Joan swayed to follow
it, causing Betty to hang onto her tight. Joan next swayed toward Betty.
The Beta stayed in position, so the effect was of Joan's drawing away
from it, and further exposing it.

Now Joan was reseated in the chair, and the white lights turned up.

These results seemed to us wonderful and satisfying; but Anne told us she
was not satisfied.

"Can you tell me what is happening to my right hand? asked Margaret
suddenly.

She said that for sometime, beginning with the thumb, and extending to
her whole hand, she had felt as though it had been taken and drawn
outward. Anne chuckled.

"It's coming out," she explained, "It tingles on the hand, and feels a
bit cold, eh? Put your hand an inch from her fingers, and you'll feel the
spark."

We then perceived the emanation, as a sort of elongation of the fingers.
This was in the white light. Gaines passed his hand about an inch and a
half from the ends of her fingers. She shook them violently, as though
they had been sensitive and had been touched. This was repeated several
times. It required considerable assurance to persuade her that Gaines had
not touched her physical fingers; but myself, Darby and Gaines could
attest positively that this was not the case. Cass saw the secondary
fingers, or prolongation, so distinctly that he could perceive Gaines'
hand coming in contact with them. She was in her normal consciousness;
though afterwards she told us that she had tried a short time before to
join in our discussion-which accompanied freely all these experiments-and
found herself unable to speak.

"I wish," she concluded, "I had some other name for the Beta."

"Ye will call it the Beta," stated Anne, "It has form and shape and is
material and has all the attributes of your own body intensified. You-not
feel it in a vaporish thing.

The truer thing is what we know, and that is the human body with all its
attributes. You are only reflections."

"In case of disease in the physical body, is there a reflex in the
Beta?", asked Darby.

"To a certain extent," she told us, "The illness is in the physical body
because it disintegrates, and the Beta does not. The Beta is a whole
thing, and the physical is many bits."

6. THE SEVENTH MEETING

The seventh session began in afternoon daylight. The smoky emanations
commenced almost immediately to rise from Joan's finger tips, and were
promptly followed by the nimbus blurring of the forearm. Evidently
practice was bringing facility but for some time the phenomenon did not
progress beyond this point.

"These are bold experiments," at length remarked Betty, as though in
explanation, "Carrying on beyond this point takes more preparation. Oh,
poor child, they are stimulating her body to make it more visible.-It is
very experimental-Kind of a frictioning process as you would rub color
into your skin.-Maybe only a flash will come. Do not look constantly, but
intermittently.-You see, naturally her Beta is not very vigorous, is not
born, as it were. It must be stimulated; made more visible."

Joan's face seemed to become pearl gray and a little blurred. We all got
this, and mentioned it, but were no sure that the effect might not be
retinal. In view of later developments it was probably not retinal, but
after a few moments this phase of the experiment was apparently
abandoned, as indicated by Betty's next remarks.

"They tried to stimulate it to the point of visibility, and now something
else is going on," she said. "-There is great confidence; so do not get
discouraged. It is necessary. The more this experimenting is done, the
more sure the results for repetition. We are on the right track; it's all
right."

"Who is this who is so certain?" asked Gaines.

"I am; reflecting," returned Betty.

Under detailed instruction through Betty, Margaret and Mrs. Gaines-the
"negative poles," as the Invisibles called them-were seated in front of
and a little to the left of Joan and Betty. They were in normal
consciousness. Streams of the lucence or "smoke" came to Joan from their
hands, which they were both impelled to extend toward her. We tried a
military prismatic compass in the line of this emanation and in three
trials obtained in each case a west variation of fifteen degrees. Joan
was facing magnetic north; and the "negative poles" were twenty degrees
east of north of her. Anne now instructed Margaret and Mrs. Gaines to
take Joan's and Betty's hands, alternating the positive and negative
poles. The first manifestation with this arrangement appeared to be that
Joan's skin became self-luminous, shining with a soft white. This seemed
evident to all of us, especially in contrast to the flesh tones of the
others who sat beside her; but in order to make sure that it was not a
reflection we arranged by means of screens to throw a strong shadow on
Joan, so that in contrast with the rest of the room she sat in twilight.
The luminosity persisted.

We reseated ourselves. Joan's features became indistinct, as in the first
and unsuccessful experiment of the afternoon. It seemed to become a mere
mass, without recognizable detail.

Gradually a luminous mist-like mask appeared to form in front of her
face, at first intermittent in character, then continuous. It was at
first formless, but in a wavering sort of fashion took a kind of rough
shape. Soon it became very evident that an attempt was being made to form
another face in front of Joan's, using this fog-like luminous material as
the plastic medium. The bandage around Joan's eyes had disappeared
entirely, and shortly we all distinctly saw eyes. The shaping is hard to
describe, as it was slow, intermittent, wavering and a little uncertain.
By a strong effort of concentration it was always possible to look
through this mask and see Joan's face with the white bandage around the
eyes, but at once the concentration was in the least relaxed the mask
face reappeared. The final result was a woman with hair high off her
forehead, a rather round face,-or, more accurately, a plump oval,-short
nose, long upper lip and wide mouth. This face was not clear and steady,
like a physical face, or a photograph. Its features as described above
did not change at any time into features of any other character, but they
did wax and wane in distinctness, so that at no time was there a
completely correlated single image. It had no color.

This disappeared into the same unformed mass of luminous mist in front of
Joan's face. Next a man was attempted. This did not get as far in
formation. All that could be determined was that he had a square lean
face, square forehead, firm jaw, and (probably) rather high cheek bones.
Anne said this was Stephen.

"Now," said Anne, "I will show you how bright the lass is, and then you
shall take her out."

Joan's luminous quality increased, first on the exposed flesh, then on
her garments, until against the black screen she appeared to be self
luminous. Her black gown, which had blended with the screen, was now
plainly outlined. By way of test we cast a complete shadow across her
feet and ankles by means of a hand screen, but the same degree of
luminosity seemed to persist, even on a close examination. Twice crinkly
brighter lights showed themselves briefly, once across her forehead, and
once around her waist. At last her eyes became luminously visible to us
through the bandage she wore about them.

All this was done by daylight, leisurely, without excitement on our part,
and with every precaution we could think of to avoid retinal strain. We
did not stare fixedly, we rested our eyes often. We refused to accept
many small phases we could not be sure we saw; that were not in a way
FORCED on us.

We now brought the stations back to normal consciousness and adjourned
for dinner.

The session resumed about nine o'clock. The violet light was used, as
having been the most successful. This, by the way, was on the left and a
little in front of the stations, and so arranged that they cast no shadow
on the screen background. The Negative Poles were seated as before, I.E.,
alternating with the two Positives.

The first attempt was only partially successful. The cloud of mist formed
above Joan, and as time went on we distinguished a vertical shaft of it
to her right. This, however, attained no further definition. The
experiment with the mask-like faces was then resumed. The procedure was
as in the afternoon. Margaret described the impression as like that of
being at considerable distance from people, as in an opera house, and
seeing the faces as masses, with features half defined or momentarily
glimpsed. To me it was like looking down through clear water at a face
just at the limit of visibility because of the depth. The quality of the
glow, mist, emanation we have called phosphorescent was more the quality
of the light one gets through the water of the usual aquarium.

Six different faces were formed one after the other. Some were recognized
by one or another of us. We adopted the idea of checking off the salient
features against each other. It must be remembered that the members of
this group came from widely separated sections of the continent, and
possessed few mutual acquaintances on this earth, and none on the other
side. So Cass, for example, would say:

"I recognize this one."

Whereupon I, who had never seen the original of the portrait, would
describe the features. In all cases these comparisons tallied perfectly.

This is a good time to note one impression. These images or masks gave
the emotion naturally accorded to portraits rather than personalities.
The observers were pleased at recognizing them, but experienced none of
the intense welcoming emotion that would naturally follow the appearance
of actual personalities. Indeed there was not the inner feeling of
personality that so often accompanies the spoken word. They were, what
Anne called them, pictures. It should further be noted that these
pictures were, in the majority of cases, of persons with whose features
Joan was unfamiliar. She had never heard of some of them, had certainly
never seen them, nor a photograph of them.

It should also be noted that with the possible exception of the time when
Anne showed "how bright the lass is," there is nothing up to now
positively to connect these phenomena with the Beta idea. They were
extraordinarily interesting, but did not go beyond the ectoplasm
hypothesis. Indeed, Anne expressed something of this thought.

"We did not get so far the night as we had hoped," said she. "I do na
think it is arranged quite right yet. It is better without the touching
of the pulse; without Margaret and Lucy touching Joan and Betty, but just
sitting near so the spark can jump across. We are a bit disappointed
about tonight. We had a big program planned."

"Were those masks we saw made of Joan's Beta," asked Darby, "or the Betas
of the people who showed their portraits) In other words, were those
people actually there?"

"That is a bit difficult," was the reply, "They were here and they were
not. It was their own Beta that was revealed. If it had been wholly
successful, then you would have had no doubt because you would have known
them. You, however, saw them plainer than you saw Joan's own Beta. Ye ken
that your difficulty is in your own minds. They close down and refuse.
You see, and you know that you see, and yet you doubt. Jack did see Joe,
and he knows he saw Joe."

"No," denied Gaines, "I saw a form, but I saw no face there nor anything
resembling him. I am willing to admit that it was Joe, if you say so; but
I could not SEE that it was he. Why are these faces represented as of a
certain age in life?"

"They chose what is most recognizable," Anne told him, "Now bring out
Betty and I will try to show her something."

Betty was brought out. The Negative Poles also came back into the body of
the room so that Joan was left alone. Under Anne's direction she stood
up, and the chair was removed. The succeeding phenomena are interesting
not only because of their especial features, but also because they proved
that Joan has now so progressed that she can get along without Betty's
help on the other side.

They started again with the "masks." The first head was a good rough
portrait of someone known to two of us.

Betty could not distinguish the features, but saw only the change in
Joan's face. Mary K. came next. The face was as before, but now a strong,
big framed, square shouldered body was in some manner suggested so
plainly that we all got it, except Betty, who still seemed to be seeing
the first phases. While we watched, the face and bust turned to the left
squarely into a profile, well-marked and unmistakable. I crossed the room
rapidly and found that Joan had not stirred, and was still facing
straight out into the room.

Anne came again with a portrait of herself that she had shown in the
afternoon. There was also here a suggestion of body, with a long sort of
waist and flaring full skirts that reached to the floor. (Joan's costume
was the modem close fitting gown, then in style, with short skirts).

"You are vain, Anne," joked Gaines, "to show yourself so young. You were
an old woman when you died."

Immediately the face began to change until it had become that of a very
old woman. Then it took on a middle age; and afterwards returned to
youth. This took place slowly.

The most vivid portraits now followed; those of Joe and Lee. The likeness
of Joe was perfect, strongly marked, and steadier than the others. He
wore a sailor suit, and held his hands, so Gaines said, in a
characteristic attitude. Lee appeared as a very pure young face, of great
beauty, with an apparent age of about sixteen.

Anne announced that she would try to show them both at once, adding that
she did not know how to do it; and was doubtful of success. She
apparently produced two of the misty shadows, one either side of Joan,
but they did not take human shape. This closed the session.

I will add as a matter of interest that earlier in the evening crystal
gazing had been tried. Joan, Lucy * and Margaret saw several little
scenes carrying inconclusive action,-a prospector making camp, a boat
trip down a tropical river, an episode in the street of a foreign city,
etc. These scenes were said to be sharp cut, clearer than a photograph.
The interesting point was that all three could see the same thing at the
same time. This would obviate the subjective self-hypnosis theory unless
an hypothesis of accurate telepathy were adopted.

* Mrs. Gaines.


7. THE EIGHTH MEETING

"The next step," remarked Anne, "is to have more and more of the Beta
come out, together with more and more of ours to assimilate it, so as to
have the appearance strong enough to examine and to analyze. So have
patience, and continue along the same lines, though this time, with the
free force-current-it is not a good word-it will go further out. You will
take note that the first action is always the same."

This was true. The usual milky emanations took place around Joan. We
expected further manifestations about the face, so we were much surprised
to see that Joan's right hand was to be the field of operation. It
lengthened to almost twice its normal length. Sometimes it had a deeply
cloven aspect, again it was filled in solid. First one finger then the
other would instantaneously appear of an inordinate length. It would not
shoot out, but would suddenly show and as suddenly disappear, though the
continuance of the appearance would extend to eight or ten seconds. The
hand and the fingers at times seemed to be in motion, though both Gaines
and I approached near enough to attest that Joan's physical hand was
immobile. Indeed on trial we found we could not possibly hold our hands
as completely still. At times the ends of these Beta fingers, as one
might call them, were a deep red, and looked not unlike flame; at all
times they had a pink tone. It was noted that Joan's flesh, either on the
arms, face or neck, had none of the usual luminous greenish-bluish
effect. At one time, for some seconds, the hand folded into the likeness
of a lily-like flower. On near examinations the fingers of Joan's own
hand glowed in a phosphorescence of a reddish tinge, and the extensions
to the fingers were not unlike in appearance to a Chinaman's nails that
had been permitted to grow long. This could be distinguished even as
close as three feet. Closer examination showed merely the natural hand
surrounded by the "smoke."

This phenomenon finished, there ensued a short pause. Gaines arose from
his chair to examine more closely. At a distance of five or six feet from
Joan, he placed his foot on the carpet in stepping forward. Joan cried
out sharply, saying: "Get off me! You are stepping on me!" Gaines hastily
resumed his chair! Almost immediately afterward he complained of the cold
and continued to do so at intervals. The cold was remarked here and
there. Joan's figure seemed to become larger and slightly luminous.

"Why we don't exist except--" cried Betty suddenly, "I'm out in the
room!-We're both spread over the room!-Now we are down over Margaret's
desk."

"Let's pull them back a little," suggested Joan, "We can't do anything
when they go out so far."

Betty afterwards said that from her vantage point of the other
consciousness she watched the process in Joan. The mist came out from
her, rolled over and over like a ball, and finally became detached. Then
to her astonishment she found herself also out in the room, and the two
together seemed to fill it. She wanted to go away outside the room with
Joan but was forbidden. She had an impression of "putting pressure,"
"spreading waves of influence," and got the idea that this was their
method of influencing us. She said that it seemed to her intended more as
a development work for the two of them than an attempt to do anything for
us; and at one time remarked: "They have freed us both together for
future work."

Anne then remarked briefly that she would show us some pictures. The
procedure did not differ from yesterday's. Joe was unmistakable in his
sailor suit, seated. Before this last portrait came out there seemed to
be an obvious confusion of feature, showing first one way, then another.
Betty remarked: "Stephen and Joe fought over it. That wasn't very good.
Stephen started it and Joe ended."

"I want Betty to see something, so I will send her out," said Anne.

Betty came back very slowly and reluctantly, and the same type of
experiments were repeated with what seemed to the rest of us signal
success. To her great disappointment, however, Betty could see little
beyond the fact that Joan's features disappeared, that there was a
luminous mist, and that something-almost formless to her,-was
superimposed over Joan's face. The rest of us, with the exception of
Margaret, had seen not only the same thing, but apparently the same
degree of the same thing. Margaret had lapses when she saw nothing.

Now while we had no doubt that certain phenomena were actually taking
place, outside the possibility of delusion, this aspect disturbed us
somewhat. We discussed it at length. Two previous statements were
recalled. Joe had told us that part of the necessary preparation for
these experiments was the tuning of our retinas to see; and that when on
one occasion Gaines had not seen when we had seen, it was because he was
"being used." The first statement seems to have a very good analogy in
the necessary adjustment of the pupils when one comes from brilliant
sunshine into a dark room. The influence of color in light toward making
certain objects more or less visible is also apposite. Motion picture
camera men, for example, have colored screens, to determine actinic
values, which will completely eliminate from visibility certain colored
bright flowers in a field of grass, or will throw into strong relief
other objects which to the naked eye are in indistinguishable monotone
with their surroundings. Thus the especial preparation of the audience,
as one might call it, should be considered a legitimate part of such
experiments as these.

Nevertheless we appreciated perfectly that to have generally convincing
value it should be possible for ANY person to see these things clearly at
ANY time. It is comparatively useless from a scientific point of view to
bring about results of which only certain persons can be aware, and of
which certain other persons then present will see nothing at all. If
especial preparation of the retina is needed, then that preparation must
become as standardized as the cameraman's color filters. Acknowledged
that the color filter is necessary; acknowledged that it is absurd to
hope to see with the naked eye, so to speak, what requires especial
apparatus, nevertheless that especial apparatus must be universally
applicable. Otherwise a certain proportion of scientific test must at
certain times prove negative, depending entirely on the personal
equipment of the investigator or his susceptibility to necessary
adjustment.

It is perhaps too much to expect at this stage of the subject's
development that this standardization should have taken place. Therefore,
exact scientific proof is not yet possible. We are still in the empirical
stage of investigation, the accumulation of testimony, which must be
examined and weighed on the credibility, the balance and the judgment of
the witnesses.

"Betty," Anne answered her complaint, "cannot see because she is not her
normal self. She has not come clear back. There is an unconscious
tenacity. It is not Marget's fault (that she sometimes sees imperfectly).
We use her a great deal with the lass (Joan)."

"Could you even vaguely give us a glimpse as to the direction the work is
to take?" I asked.

"We shall try to get the Beta entirely out and clear so that it is
tangible. This is experimental with us as with you, and we cannot tell
exactly."


8. THE NINTH MEETING

On the occasion of the ninth meeting what was said to be Joan's actual
Beta was shown, as distinct from the molded materials that had made the
"pictures" or masks.

Darby and Joan were a little later than the rest in arriving, so we tried
Margaret alone against the black screen. We perceived the smoky
emanations from the ends of the fingers and very successfully repeated
the experiment of touching the air from one to about three inches from
the ends of the fingers and getting an instant physical reaction.
Margaret reported that whereas the other day it felt definitely as though
her finger were touched, today she received rather a sharp semi-painful
shock, almost as though from an electric current. Darby and Joan now came
in, and Betty was put under with Margaret in order to give Joan a chance
to see something, if possible. The demonstration was entirely successful.
The peculiar lengthening of Margaret's fingers, the cloud of lucence, and
finally the formation of masks followed customary lines. The mere fact
that well-defined portraits could be obtained before Margaret as well as
Joan was interesting. Three portraits were shown. The last was the most
distinct and unwavering of any we have had yet. A man with gray or light
Vandyke beard, deep eyes, considerable hair, with a cowlick just off the
center line of the forehead. Joan identified this as her father. Betty
coughed in a hacking fashion just as this mask formed: and Joan said this
was characteristic. Somebody through Betty, probably Joan's father, said,
"Very very gratifying." Betty instructed us that Mrs. Gaines was now to
work at this, after Margaret, and before Joan, "In order to harmonize."

Accordingly she took Margaret's place for some time. The phenomena
centered on her right hand. The fingers elongated and returned to normal,
the hand stellated or became a solid bunch, and the fingers writhed and
moved-though the physical hand was motionless,-just as had Joan's the
other day. A new aspect was furnished by the pulsing aurora-like rays of
lucence that shot from the extended palm of her hand toward the floor.
These were quite the most vivid of anything we had yet seen. There were
also brief but bright flashes across her breast.

Now Joan was put under, and the original team went to work. The upheld
hand went through its changes as before.

"We are coming out again. Wait for us," stated Betty.

Joan's ankles began to show as luminous. We had particularly noticed
previously that they were in almost complete shadow, and without shine.
Now, however, they began to glow. The luminosity extended upward to just
below the waist. The same effect began at the shoulders and extended
downward, tending to meet that below, eating steadily into the dark area
that persisted longest about her waist. We tried moving the lamp standard
to throw more and less light, but without effect in altering either the
extent or entirety of the luminosity.

"Joan is melting away like a piece of ice," said Betty.

The ankles now began to dim, followed in reverse order by a dimming of
the rest of the luminosity, until her appearance was again normal.

"Now," said Betty, "we are out all over the room."

The cold was felt, especially near the floor. The self-registering
thermometer showed a drop of about four degrees, but as a door had been
opened at one time for a few minutes, the record was not conclusive. It
should be noted, however, that we were unable to bring about a like drop
later by opening the same door.

Gaines was the first to note a feeling of pressure in the room, as if the
air pressure had been increased. This was noticed by all, and was
mentioned by Betty.

"Now it's all right," said she, "It has filled the room. We are in a
different fluid substance."

To what extent that which followed was objective, in the usual acceptance
of those terms, it is useless to speculate on now; nor to what extent it
was self-induced or brought about. The facts must be recorded as
carefully as possible, and explanations left for fuller development.
Darby and I saw the same things, practically to the same extent, and at
the same time. Gaines saw them sometimes. When he did not see them he was
conscious of a strong current of some sort. Cass saw the same things, but
less often, and sometimes not so completely. He also was conscious of a
current. Mrs. Gaines and Margaret saw less, but were almost continuously
conscious of the current. Darby and I were at no time conscious of
currents. Some days ago Anne, through Joan, told Darby that Gaines was a
good "feeder," and that while on that job he would see nothing. Darby did
not tell Gaines this until after the latter had reported the fact
mentioned above.

The usual mask, or shell was thrown in front of Joan's face. She then
raised her hand to her physical face. The hand showed plainly THROUGH the
mask; and it became evident that the physical face had vanished entirely.
That is, the hand, plainly visible, was shown through the mask, against
an apparently empty background; though in reality it rested against her
physical chin. This was repeated on request, and was seen plainly for
some time by everybody.

I was seated within about four or five feet of Joan, who was more
distinctly visible to me than to anyone else in the room. While I
watched, not stared,-removing my eyes every moment or so to avoid
strain,-first the outlines of her body merged with the black background,
leaving boldly prominent the white of her arms, neck and face. Then
swiftly the black seemed to close over these. Joan had vanished utterly,
leaving only the black screen. She reappeared as swiftly at the end of
three seconds. I remarked on this, but suspected it as perhaps the
blurring effect of too attentive looking. I therefore tried, by staring

intently, by blurring my eyes, and similar devices, to repeat this
blotting out effect, but in vain. The most I could accomplish was a
doubling of the white areas, or a blurring of their outlines. When I had
fully satisfied myself as to this, the phenomenon automatically resumed.
At first this initial vanishment was the only complete one. The
subsequent trials obliterated only parts. The forearm would disappear, or
the face, or the neck. Darby began to get the same effects shortly after
myself. In the leisure of the repetitions we were both enabled to notice
the fact that all the details of the room remained clear. In other words,
it was not as though Joan had been blotted out by fog or smoke.

"She will be replaced by something that can only be completed in this
sort of substance. It is like making an aquarium," commented Betty.

The complete obliteration was repeated a number of times, each occasion
lasting a little longer than the last, until Joan was invisible to
upwards of half a minute at a time. Then in this complete blackness a
head and shoulders would come, smaller in size than Joan, sometimes full
face, sometimes in profile, sometimes half face. It was illuminated, but
not in the surface phosphorescent manner of the masks; rather more after
the fashion of a frosted incandescent globe, from within. This appearance
was clearly defined, but,-as far as I saw,-without features; in relief;
as a silhouette. It was unlike the masks in that it seemed to give the
impression of a living entity,-a personality. The guess was hazarded that
this might be Joan's actual Beta, which was later briefly corroborated by
Anne when she resumed vocal control.

Betty, herself still in the other consciousness, now took charge of
Joan's coming out. She warned us to sit still, not to make sudden
movements; saying that she had to "pack Joan back in neatly." She said we
should not try to take her out until Anne spoke. This did not happen
until after some moments.

"We demonstrated," said Anne, faintly.


9. THE TENTH MEETING

Unfortunately Mrs. Gaines was unable to be present at the tenth meeting.
When the two stations had been put under, someone directed through Joan
that Betty was to lie flat between herself and Margaret. As a mattress
had to be procured and cushions arranged, the stations were brought back.
They had been out perhaps a minute. Jokingly, Darby told Joan the session
had lasted four hours. It was interesting to observe how unquestioningly
she accepted this. She was much perturbed over the thought of having
missed a suburban train! The arrangements perfected, the session was
resumed.

The first thing noticed was a cloud of palpitating mist above Betty's
face. Then Joan's upheld hand melted and contorted as usual. Both her
features and Margaret's became indistinguishable, though they had been
plainly visible, especially to myself, as I was sitting within five feet
of Margaret. Darby, much interested, took a chair within two feet of
Joan. Even when that near he could see flashes of illumination playing
over her face in the manner of phosphorus on fingers that have handled
the heads of matches, and also at one time a similar light on the back of
her neck, which was in deep shadow.

"Margaret and I are to form a bridge over Betty, and then they will walk
on it." said Joan.

For the next few moments bands and patches of the lucent mist played
between Joan and Margaret. Then Betty's bare arms began to lose their
outline and get fuzzy. The effect was much as though the arms had been
encased in a loose chiffon sleeve. A band of lucence, more brilliant than
the usual glow, ran across and followed the curve of her breast. The
fuzzy chiffon effect gradually spread over the whole figure.

Anne now began to coax her in a very pretty manner: "Coom now, lass dear;
coom wi' Anne," and the like. Betty complained that she was paralyzed,
felt like cast iron. After considerable coaxing the chiffon effect of the
whole figure seemed to have risen perhaps eight or ten inches above
Betty, and to heave gently, like a ground swell. Under orders from Anne,
Joan, moving woodenly, like an automaton, left her chair, half knelt, and
thrust forward her hand over Betty.

"Try to put your hand between her Beta and the lass," instructed Anne.

As Joan's hand and arm were extended over and close to Betty's physical
body, we could see that they were partly obscured by the mist-like
chiffon. Anne commanded Joan to lift Betty up. Joan put both hands below
the Beta and lifted strongly, raising the Beta perhaps six inches above
its first position. While doing so she panted heavily, as though in great
exertion; and after resuming her seat continued to breath pantingly for
some moments. Betty's physical body, including the folds of the gown, now
began to sharpen. It is to be noted that during this experiment both
Joan's and Margaret's features, which had been lost before, were again
clearly defined.

While this experiment was going on, both Gaines and Cass remarked on an
outpouring sensation from their hands. Examining them at close range, we
saw the thin smoky emanations coming off their fingers.

The first phenomenon of the next experiment showed as a broad ray, or
series of rays, extending upward from Betty's head. This band was broad
and indeterminate.

"Gather yourself together, lass," urged Anne sharply, "you're all over
the place. Make yourself pretty now for the gentlemen."

In the center of this shaft Darby, Gaines, and to a much less degree Cass
and I, thought to make out an upright form of about human proportions.
Betty announced herself as standing up. It was neither well-defined nor
distinct. Betty said afterwards that the lack of force on the "negative
pole" side had something to do with the fact that success was only
partial. Mrs. Gaines absence threw the whole burden on Margaret.

"When this is successful," said Anne, "You will see Betty standing there.
The shaft thing around her is Margaret and Joan. When Betty is in that
her image becomes intensified by it. That is the method."

The central vague image now began to fade, but the band or shaft
persisted for a few moments after it had disappeared. Once Anne
admonished sharply: "Don't go back too quickly, Marget," she cried, "Let
Betty go first!"

"I was so heavy," complained Betty, "It was like being in a diver's suit
and having to get up."

"Next we will do somewhat with Marget," announced Anne.

With fairly startling speed a mask formed in front of Margaret. It was
one of the steadiest and the most detailed yet shown: a man with a
close-cropped white beard, a straight nose, dark well marked eye-brows
ending abruptly next the nose, with a square effect, a high brow, and
with an arching tuft or cowlick just to the right of center; the same as
had been identified as Joan's father the other night.

A second clear mask was shown, and a third started, but did not get far.
Anne said Margaret was getting tired, and abandoned it. Margaret was
conscious throughout. By direction Betty came out. Anne said she wanted
to try Joan alone. Anne was very particular as to the elimination of
shadows, and that we should notice carefully what shadows could not be
eliminated.

She started the experiment by causing Joan to disappear, as on the other
evening. While she was visible, her arms to the shoulder were discernible
as through gauze, although the stuff of which her sleeves were made was
of thick opaque material. After Joan had been blotted out thus three
times, I again saw her Beta glowing with the inner incandescence. She was
now standing. The others also saw it, but intermittently. To me the
phenomenon continued uninterrupted. The screen and the woodwork of the
room, etc., were at all times plainly visible. In other words, it was not
as if a fog had been drawn or formed before the whole vision. Anne
explained that Joan's Beta stepped in front of a screen formed to hide
her physical body. The Beta turned in profile to the west, head and bust
and arms, although Margaret, who was seated next Joan, reported that Joan
herself had not stirred. It showed thus plainly the profile features,
chin, nose, brow (without the eye bandage), though full-face features
were indistinguishable. I requested that she turn to the east. This was
done about three-quarters, again without movement of Joan's physical
body. Anne next announced that she would try to have Joan's Beta step
entirely away from the physical. For sometime the Beta swayed slowly
toward the west, seeming almost to break away, but always swaying back
again to position. Then the Beta faded, and Joan reappeared.

"I would have you notice," requested Anne, "that the lass has stood in an
impossible position for twenty minutes, knees and heels together, and
hands clasped. It has not tired her because we have held her up. Now
watch and I will let her down into her chair."

Joan, with arms rigidly extended downwards, and body erect, sank very
slowly to a sitting position. This was done without any compensating,
balancing flexions or leaning of the body. Subsequent experiments by some
of us plainly showed that this would have been to a conscious person a
remarkable feat of strength and balance, if indeed it could have been
done at all. I requested the repetition of an experiment I had been told
of. Joan extended her arms and clasped her hands in front of her at the
level of her face. I exerted considerable strength in trying to press the
hands downward to her lap, but without success. At the same time I, and
the others, felt of the muscles of her upper arms and shoulders. They
remained loose and flaccid.

"I just want ye to ken how it is," said Anne, "In a book, an ancient
book, not much read these days, it was written that your hands are
upheld. Underneath the lass's hands are other hands. The miracles are not
miracles; they are Law."


10. OUR FINAL MEETING

Our final meeting began about half past three in the afternoon, and at
the request of the Invisibles Joan sat alone before the screen.

A mask of Anne was shown, with recognizable features as before. All but
Betty saw this. She saw that the face was not Joan's; but that was as far
as she got. Anne finally told Betty, who had been complaining of
drowsiness, to sit next Joan. Almost immediately she went out, without
the usual holding of the wrist, and without an eye bandage. The mask of
Anne clarified and strengthened. I, who was on Joan's right, saw toward
the back of her head a puff shape of gray that looked like the back part
of a Tudor cape, or an outstanding roll of white hair. Anne's hair was
black, and parted a little to one side. Asking what this might be, I got
the reply: "It is the Beta of the lass coomin' over." At the fading of
Anne's mask, Margaret was called for, and took Joan's other wrist. For
some time nothing happened except the smoky emanations. "Watch the
carpet," advised Anne.

We did so, and saw a bright spot form around Joan's feet. It gradually
enlarged to a circle of which, roughly speaking, Joan's feet were the
center, but which was wide enough to include the feet of the other two
who sat next her. A cool breeze or feeling of evaporation was discernible
about two feet above the floor. This afterwards concentrated around
Joan's feet and rose in a cloud to about the height of her knee. Anne
said the intention was to show a mist out in the room and standing; but
that the lilac electric light was better for this than the daylight.
Darby suggested putting the operators behind the screen instead of in
front of it. Anne assented a little doubtfully, but said we might try it,
only to "wait for the blue light." Accordingly we took an hour's recess
until the daylight should fade.

The session was resumed at 5:30. Joan, Betty and Margaret were placed
behind the black screen.

"Ye will be watching the bottom next the carpet," Anne instructed.

Almost immediately the typical luminous fog began to seep through below
the screen, until the sharp line of demarcation between the bottom of the
black screen and the lighter rug was blurred. Shortly we all noticed that
the center panel of the screen appeared to bulge outward a little; and
this bulge seemed to palpitate or waver. There were some quite sharp
folds in the black stuff that draped the screen (which itself was
stretched tight and "unbulgeable"). These folds over the bulging portion
were completely obscured by the luminous fog, which was about in the
proportionate dimensions of a standing human figure directly in front of
the place where we knew Joan to be seated behind the screen. After a few
moments this appearance moved about two feet to our left along the
screen. The folds that had been obscured again came sharply into sight,
while those to the left that had been clearly defined, now disappeared.
At this moment the telephone rang. In answering it, I passed behind the
screen. To my surprise I found that Joan was no longer seated, nor even
directly in front of her chair; but erect, and exactly behind the point
at which the latest obscuration was taking place on the other side of the
screen. In other words, the shifts of position and location were
following exactly Joan's to us unknown movements.

"Ye'll no be tellin' all ye know! " cried Anne, calling me by name.

Anne seemed quite jubilant over this much of success. She remarked that
it had been no light feat to get the Beta out so far and through the
thick stuff of which the screen was made.

The three now resumed their places in front of the screen. Under
direction we completely covered Joan with a piece of black cloth thrown
over her head and falling to the floor. The material was thick and
impervious; so much so, indeed, that Darby rather objected on the ground
that Joan might be smothered.

"We will take care of the lass," Anne assured him.

Through this formless thick black drapery Joan's figure was several times
made distinctly visible in rather blurred outline as a glowing lucence,
and then allowed to fade until merely the dark mass of the drapery
remained. At first this luminosity extended above Joan's head; so that it
seemed to us probable that an attempt was being made to show her standing
figure while physically she remained seated.

After some interval, Anne directed us to fix our attention at a point
about two feet in front of Joan. Gradually there formed a wraith-like
thin mist, of about human proportions as to length and breadth, but
without definite shape. It was very thin, and the eye lost it easily. By
itself it would have been a very dubious demonstration, but in connection
with the extremely distinct phenomena we had been observing, we felt
justified in recording it. The most convincing test of it was to look at
some one through it. Then the obscuration though slight, seemed
unmistakable.

"I hae actually the lass's Beta standing two feet in front of her." said
Anne, "She is not so tall as she is." (I.E. in the physical) "She is a
verra good fit in hersel'."

Darby started to put his hand out toward the mist.

"Dinna touch it!" commanded Anne sharply.

"Why?" asked Darby, "Would it injure her?"

"Na," replied Anne, "But ye hae seen her start when ye touch her, and the
jerk would disturb the ither twa lasses."

The black drape was removed.

"I had her hands around the wrists of some of ye," Anne told us, "but you
did not know it. How can I make you feel when you are so stupid! The feel
of the Beta is like cold and like evaporating. Come now, lad, sit on the
floor in front of the lass and we'll make you pretty."

I did so. My sensations were that of sitting in an ice box with a
trickling cold shower coming down from above. I noted afterward that
this, however, did not cause me to shiver. The others reported that a
mask was made on my face. I had no sensations other than the cold, except
a strong impulse to suck in my cheeks.

Anne announced another recess until after dinner. She said that she would
send out Betty herself without aid.

We resumed at 9:00 P.M. Margaret sat in the center, with Mrs. Gaines and
Betty on either side. Joan made part of the audience.

A number of most excellent masks were produced for Joan's benefit. The
most remarkable and novel was a very brief one of Margaret herself. This
was not located as usual in front of her own face, but about a foot to
the left of it, and between her and Mrs. Gaines. It endured as a luminous
spot or globe about the size of a head for some time, but showed as a
face for only an instant.

Joan was now put under, and by Anne's direction Gaines sat on the floor
in front of her. Joan extended her hands, with Betty and Margaret still
holding her wrists, passing them in a weaving motion over Gaines's head.
Now Gaines is a round-faced man with a nose to match. He became a
sharp-nosed person with a thin face and heavy black eyebrows. Darby and I
were actually within three feet of him when this change took place. Anne
kept up a running comment in a facetious vein. Gaines reported the same
cold and shower bath effect that I had experienced.

Anne now called for Betty. She took Gaines's place on the floor in front
of Joan. Darby and I drew closer until we were so near as almost to touch
her. Her face seemed to change in feature and shape until we saw her
before us as a child of about eight years, with square-banged dark hair.
I tried to focus my gaze to penetrate through the mask to distinguish
the' real Betty, but was unable to do so. The appearance of this new face
seemed to all of us as of flesh and blood, and not of the luminous
monotone of the usual masks. It was precisely AS THOUGH the actual flesh
had been manipulated.

"Now we will play a joke on Betty; she will na mind," said Anne.

Betty's face lengthened; the brow became wide and low; high cheek bones
came into prominence,. The result was a grotesque.

"Now she's a comic valentine," quoth Anne.

Joan waved her arm with a sudden motion and Betty instantly reappeared.

This was a most astonishing performance of "magic," considering the
illumination, the close proximity of the observers, the complete change
of appearance, and the fact that the result seemed more living than the
portrait masks. No explanation was given. It seemed simply, to be done as
an amusing thing.


11. CONCLUSION

This was the last meeting of us eight. The sessions had extended nearly
six weeks, and those of us who lived at a distance could stay no longer.
It is evident that the original program was only partly carried out. This
was, it will be remembered, to demonstrate and prove the existence of the
Beta. The demonstration was given to our own complete satisfaction; and
is invaluable in linking up the philosophical statements in THE SEVEN
PURPOSES, OUR UNSEEN GUEST, and Betty's teachings, of which this book is
merely the A B C. It was not carried to the point of scientific proof.
Things went more slowly than had been anticipated. The phenomena were
produced in increasing perfection, but it did not strike me that they had
become certainly standardized so that they could be invariably repeated
for scientific analysis. That is only an impression; I may be wrong
there. At any rate, the group was forced to separate before the stage of
scientific analysis was reached.

The Invisibles did not seem to be wholly dissatisfied.

"You have gone a long way; much farther than you realize now," they told
us at the last. "However, you will realize how far you have gone in this
short time when I tell you that the results you have yourselves seen are
as nothing compared with the results we are able to see here."

"We've all done bully work together, haven't we?" Joe expressed it, "It's
been worth while and we are well on the road over here, because we have a
start on a new manipulation. We have done much more here than you have
there. You see we have more or less to do the work here before we can
give it to you."

"How much difference is there between this physical work we have done,
and what is generally called materialization?" queried Margaret.

"Not much, except that it is more sensible, and you know what you are
doing. It is being consciously combined with the teaching. It has been
done before after a fashion, but not from a scientific standpoint. There
is no particular value in merely seeing these masks, or the Beta, the
stripped soul, except as it has scientific value. There have always been
those who could do this, in a way. We are not ready for scientists yet."

Such is a record of these, to me, extraordinary meetings. Anyone is, of
course, at entire liberty to interpret it as he pleases. The only thing I
vouch for is the accuracy of the report. The reader is at liberty to
question anything but the absolute and entire good faith of the
experimenters. Either these things happened, or we unanimously thought
they did. On the most skeptical interpretation possible, the whole thing
would be a remarkable example of collective hallucination. Personally,
any but the simple and direct interpretation involves me in so many
logical fallacies and intricacies that I have ended by taking the matter
at its face value.



End of this Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook
The Betty Book by Stewart Edward White



-----------------------------------------------------------------

More information about this eBook is provided at the beginning of this
file.

Our US site is at http://gutenberg.net or http://promo.net/pg

It takes us, at a rather conservative estimate, fifty hours to get any
eBook selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright searched and
analyzed.

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation in the United States
has
been created to secure a secure future for Project Gutenberg

All donations should be made to:
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
PMB 113
1739 University Ave.
Oxford, MS 38655-4109 USA

***

** The Legal Small Print **
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers. They tell
us you might sue us if there is something wrong with your copy of this
eBook, even if you got it for free from someone other than us, and even
if what's wrong is not our fault.  So, among other things, this
"Small Print!" statement disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also
tells you how you may distribute copies of this eBook if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS eBook
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook, you
indicate that you understand, agree to and accept this "Small Print!"
statement.  If you do not, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for this eBook by sending a request within 30 days of receiving
it to the person you got it from.  If you received this eBook on a
physical medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM eBookS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook is in the "public domain" in Australia
Among other things, this means that, in Australia, no one owns a
copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and distribute it
in Australia without permission and without paying copyright royalties.
Special rules, set forth below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute
this eBook under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

Please do not use the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark to market any
commercial products without permission.

To create these eBooks, the Project expends considerable efforts to
identify, transcribe and proofread public domain works.  Despite these
efforts, the Project's eBooks and any medium they may be on may contain
"Defects".  Among other things, Defects may take the form of incomplete,
inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other
eBook medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot
be
read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below, [1] Michael
Hart and the Foundation (and any other party you may receive this eBook
from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook) disclaims all liability to you for
damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO
REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF
WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT,
CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of receiving it,
you
can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending an
explanatory note within that time to the person you received it from.  If
you received it on a physical medium, you must return it with your note,
and such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy.
If you received it electronically, such person may choose to
alternatively
give you a second opportunity to receive it electronically.

THIS eBook IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS TO THE eBook OR ANY
MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold Michael Hart, the Foundation, and its
trustees
and agents, and any volunteers associated with the production and
distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm texts harmless, from all liability,
cost and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly
from any of the following that you do or cause:  [1] distribution of this
eBook, [2] alteration, modification, or addition to the eBook, or [3] any
Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this eBook electronically, or by disk, book
or any other medium if you either delete this "Small Print!" and all
other
references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     eBook or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     if you wish, distribute this eBook in machine readable
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     including any form resulting from conversion by word
     processing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The eBook, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author, and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The eBook may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the eBook (as is
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          eBook in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]  Honor the eBook refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the
     gross profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation"
     the 60 days following each date you prepare (or were
     legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent
     periodic) tax return.  Please contact us beforehand to
     let us know your plans and to work out the details.

** END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN eBookS*Ver.06/12/01 **
[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
and may be reprinted only when these eBooks are free of all fees.]
[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
of Project Gutenberg eBooks or other materials be they hardware or
software or any other related product without express permission.]

**********




End of the Etext of "The Royal Book of Oz" by Ruth Plumly Thompson
 Anglistik Home Page

 Copyright Michael Stubbs 2000.

Readers are welcome to print individual copies of this paper for private study. Reference should always be made to the original place of publication which is:

C Heffer & H Saunston eds (2000) Words in Context: A Tribute to John Sinclair on his Retirement. English Language Research Discourse Analysis Monograph 18. University of Birmingham. [CD-ROM.]

USING VERY LARGE TEXT COLLECTIONS TO STUDY SEMANTIC SCHEMAS: A RESEARCH NOTE
Michael Stubbs

FB2 Anglistik, Universita"t Trier, D-54286 Trier, Germany
stubbs@uni-trier.de

TERMINOLOGY AND CONVENTIONS

    * 'Word-forms' are in lower case in single quotes.
    * 'LEMMAS' are in upper case in single quotes.
    * "Meanings" (e.g. discourse prosodies) are in double quotes.
    * <Frequent collocates> of a node are in diamond brackets.
    * Collocates are studied in a span of words before and after a node word, here four words to left and right (4:4) 

This paper illustrates two principles to bear in mind when drawing conclusions from corpus data. (1) It is unwise to rely on a single corpus, however large or well designed it might be: all corpora have in-built biases, and findings should therefore be checked in different independent corpora. A subsidiary point is that it is sometimes necessary to check findings in very large text collections. (2) A method of study should be appropriate to its object of study. Here, this means that methods should be sensitive to the main broad finding of corpus linguistics, that there is a layer of organization between lexis and syntax, which is variously called lexico-grammar and extended lexical units (Sinclair 1998), idiom schemas (Moon 1998), and semantic coagulations (Teubert 1999). A related finding is that these schemas often have evaluative connotations. Corpus methods must be sensitive to this pragmatic turn (Weigand 1998) in work on lexis.

I will illustrate these two principles with examples from the following data-base, corpora and text collections:

    * COBUILD COLLOCATIONS: not a corpus, but a data-base (Cobuild 1995) comprising the 10,000 most frequent word-forms in a 200-million word sub-corpus of the Bank of English, and their 20 most frequent collocates (plus 20 concordance lines for each node-collocate combination).
    * COBUILD: a 56-million-word sub-corpus of the Bank of English, available on-line as CobuildDirect at http://titania.cobuild.collins.co.uk/form.html.
    * BNC: the 100-million-word British National Corpus, available on-line at http://thetis.bl.uk/lookup.html.
    * TIMES: the Times and Sunday Times for 1995 on CD-ROM, over 91,000 articles, and probably around 45 million running words.
    * ALLTHEWEB: the 200 million World Wide Web documents indexed (in December 1999) by the search engine available on-line at http://www.alltheweb.com; the size of this text collection is unknown and difficult to estimate, but it must contain thousands of millions of running words of English. 

Several terms for different kinds of corpus have become fairly standard (Sinclair 1995). The only distinction which I need here is between a corpus and a text collection. A corpus has been designed on given criteria for linguistic research. Usually these criteria are external and sociolinguistic, and based on a theory of text-types. Examples of corpora are COBUILD and BNC. A text collection has not been designed for any linguistic purpose. It has been put together, or has simply accumulated, for some independent reason, and might be used, opportunistically, for linguistic purposes. An example is TIMES. (Newspapers on CD-ROM may constitute a very good, homogeneous sample of specific text-types.) The largest available text collection is the World Wide Web itself.

Here then are three examples which illustrate the two principles.

1. THE 'RIPE OLD AGE' SCHEMA
A major finding of corpus linguistics is that all words occur in predictable collocations. There are very few absolutely fixed phrases: words have typical uses, and occur in central semantic patterns, but these patterns almost always have considerable lexical variation. The hypothesis is that there are simple underlying semantic units (for which relatively small corpora may provide sufficient evidence), but that these units typically show considerable surface lexical variation (for which very large text collections may be required as evidence).

For example, as noted briefly by Fillmore (1997), the phrase 'ripe old age' usually has very positive connotations. It occurs in a longer schema: "people want to live to a ripe old age" and/or "people are admired for living to a ripe old age". Attested examples of such uses are:


                            hoping to live to a ripe old age
                      enjoying good health to a ripe old age
                     if you expect to live to a ripe old age
           stand a better chance of living to a ripe old age
                                  living to the ripe old age of 70 years
                                    reached the ripe old age of 75
                         until his death at the ripe old age of 87
           

The admiration (and sometimes slight envy?) is signalled by the lexis in examples such as

    * it is a major triumph of the 20th century that many more people survive to a ripe old age
    * he survived the perils of infancy to live to the ripe old age of 74 

A general model which is useful in showing the construction of such patterns is proposed by Sinclair (1998). Words occur in extended lexical units which comprise a configuration of characteristic items from

    * lexis: preferred individual collocates
    * syntax: preferred colligations
    * semantics: words from preferred semantic fields
    * pragmatics: a discourse prosody, expressing speaker attitude 

Thus, the phrase 'ripe old age' frequently occurs with the individual collocates 'LIVE to' or 'REACH', but also with other semantically related verbs such as 'ATTAIN', 'SURVIVE to', 'GO on to'. There are preferred colligations: often a preceding verb plus preposition plus determiner. There are semantic preferences: often verbs such as 'ASPIRE', 'HOPE', 'INTEND', 'STRIVE' and 'WANT', and/or words concerning dangers and risks, such as 'death', 'maximum life-span', and 'perils of infancy'. Other vocabulary may explicitly express the positive discourse prosody and the speaker's admiration for the achievement: reaching a 'ripe old age' is a good thing to do.

It is easy to state the prototypical semantic pattern, but impossible to list all the variant phrases. First, the collocates above are only some possibilities. Second, there are further variants of the core phrase. The only obligatory word is 'age'. The phrase 'ripe old age' is frequent, but 'ripe age', 'grand (old) age' and 'good (old) age' also occur. Therefore a very large text collection may be required to show the relative frequency of variants, since even if words are individually quite frequent, collocations of these words may drop to zero in corpora as large as 100-million words. Consider the frequencies of related phrases in four sets of material:



                             TIMES   COBUILD    BNC     ALLTHEWEB

           ripe old age        15      11        33        7965
           good old age         1       1         7        1593
           grand old age        5       2         7         541

           LIVE to a/the
              ripe old age      4       1        12        1791
              good old age      1       1         1         250
              grand old age     0       0         0          40

           REACH a/the
              ripe old age      0       1         3         454
              good old age      0       0         0          19
              grand old age     1       0         2          84

           

Only ALLTHEWEB provides enough examples to show with confidence that all these variants do occur, and which are more or less frequent (and these variants are only a small sample of the possibilities).

2. THE 'UNDERGO' SCHEMA
Here is a second example, which shows that it may be possible to collect solid supporting evidence for a schema from a relatively small corpus, but that a much larger corpus may be required to check for potential counter examples. The verb 'UNDERGO' typically occurs in a simple semantic schema in which people or things "involuntarily UNDERGO something serious and unpleasant". If the subject of the verb is a human individual, then the most frequent object noun phrase is some medical procedure, and the most frequent individual noun collocate is 'surgery'. Here are a few examples:



                     is to undergo a historic transformation
                   did not undergo a major metamorphosis until
            asking them to undergo a medical examination
            is expected to undergo a psychiatric examination
                    had to undergo a stringent medical examination
           being forced to undergo an Achilles tendon operation
           are required to undergo an "eyescan" before being allowed
                    had to undergo brain surgery
               is about to undergo dramatic changes
              scheduled to undergo his eighth open heart surgery
               continue to undergo major cutbacks
                 forced to undergo random drug testing

           

Again, at least informally, it is easy to state the prototypical semantic schema:




           - involuntary -----------------------------------------------
           ----------------------- serious --- unpleasant --------------

           often                   often       usually
           PASSIVE or              ADJECTIVE   MEDICAL PROCEDURE,
           MODAL                               TESTING, CHANGE, etc

           forced to     undergo   further     surgery etc
           required to             extensive   medical or other testing
           had to                  major       training
           must                    severe      change
                                   etc         a trauma etc
           
           

This prototype is a hypothesis about the most typical uses of 'UNDERGO'. (In this case, rather exceptionally, all the forms of the lemma show very similar collocates.) This hypothesis is a prediction that we will find similar examples in other independent corpora. However, this is the easy part: any reasonably large corpus will provide dozens of further examples which support the hypothesis, but this would not tell us anything new. A hypothesis is also a prediction that we will not find any counter examples. Every good theory is a prohibition: a claim that certain things will not happen. So, the hypothesis has to be tested by looking deliberately for counter examples which would lead us to reject or modify the hypothesis. If we find them, we would learn something new. (Popper 1963.)

For example, do we find occurrences of the phrase 'willingly UNDERGO'? This might provide counter examples to the claim that the discourse prosody includes the unit "involuntary". Again, smaller text collections (of up to 100 million words) are of no help. There was only one example each in the TIMES and COBUILD data, and none at all in the BNC.

3. THE 'WILLINGLY UNDERGO' SCHEMA
However, ALLTHEWEB provided 176 examples, such as

    * no-one, short of a severely psychotic masochist, would willingly undergo what she went through
    * there is no way I'd willingly undergo a procedure that carries that risk with it
    * why did he willingly undergo forty years of hardship?
    * why willingly undergo the dangers and tortures of such a struggle, risk life itself?
    * it is indeed difficult to understand how a thoughtful writer can willingly undergo the throes and agonies of ...
    * one can willingly undergo some painful experience for one who is dearly loved
    * Christ took upon him all the sins of the world and willingly underwent that grief of heart ...
    * sufferings and dangers the early Christian willingly underwent for the sake of ...
    * yea, he patiently suffers and willingly undergoes afflictions 

So, the phrase does occur, but it seems not to provide counter examples to the hypothesized schema for 'UNDERGO', and indeed provides evidence of a related prosody. The phrase often occurs in negatives, in questions or in hypothetical statements. The speaker is saying that they would not personally want to undergo some unpleasant experience. Alternatively they are expressing incredulity or admiration that someone could willingly undergo some unpleasant experience or sacrifice. The context is sometimes medical or military, but most frequently religious.

The phrase has a clear discourse prosody: "someone willingly undergoes a sacrifice for the sake of someone else". Examples include reports of parents who willingly undergo sacrifices for the sake of their children. The phrase 'for the sake of' occurs in several examples. So do related phrases such as 'to be able to', 'as evidence of', and 'as a sign that'. Co-occurring vocabulary which implies sacrifice (often religious) includes: 'martyrdom', 'atonement', 'a small price to pay', 'deprivation', 'the burden laid on them'.

I found also very similar patterns around the phrase 'cheerfully UNDERGO', where examples included:

    * what they cheerfully underwent for the sake of His Gospel
    * cheerfully undergoing it for the sake of the country
    * martyrs for Christ have cheerfully undergone extreme tortures 

The method proposed here is that of conjectures and refutations (Popper 1963): formulate a hypothesis, collect supporting evidence, then search for potential counter examples. Consider if they are genuine counter examples. If yes: reformulate the hypothesis. If no: keep searching!

4. THE WEB AS A TEXT COLLECTION
In the case of 'willingly' and 'cheerfully UNDERGO' the pattern is clear, but only a very large text collection can provide the 40 or 50 examples which would be the minimum number required to study it. The largest text collection currently available is the World Wide Web itself, and one search engine (www.alltheweb.com) claims (December 1999) to index 200 million documents. Clearly the Web is not a corpus: it has obviously not been designed on linguistic principles (it hasn't been designed at all). So, the question is: if it used, opportunistically, as a text collection (from which virtual sub-corpora can be formed to answer specific questions), can one draw valid conclusions from it about general language use?

The Web certainly has potential disadvantages as linguistic data. Many documents occur more than once (though this is also true of many corpora; and if a document is stored at different addresses, perhaps its language should be weighted accordingly). It is very largely written data (though there are transcribed versions of public news statements and the like). Not all documents are written by native English speakers (though this seems not to affect the examples cited above). And we have no real idea of what proportions it contains of different text-types, and no real idea how many running words it contains (though it might be possible to estimate this at least roughly by sampling word frequencies).

On the other hand, the Web certainly has potential advantages as a text collection. It is very very large, and growing. It is very mixed: it contains a wide selection of text-types, including material which is relatively rare in the designed corpora (e.g. many texts which are written, but not formally published, and therefore not professionally edited.) And even if we have only a very rough idea of what is in the whole collection, any individual example (phrase, collocation, etc) can be studied in its full co-text. The Web has considerable potential as a source of temporary and virtual corpora to study particular patterns.

5. FORMS OF THE LEMMA 'SEEK'
My examples so far have shown problems which arise when a corpus does not contain enough examples of a pattern. Conversely, a corpus may contain too many examples of a specific pattern, because it contains too many examples of a specialized text-type. Smadja (1993: 169) notes an extreme example in a study of an 8-million word corpus of Associated Press news-wire stories, mainly about the stock market. The word 'food' was frequent, but 'EAT' was not among its collocates, since food is not 'eaten' on Wall Street but rather 'traded', 'sold', 'offered', 'bought', and so on. In general, it is well known that words differ in their collocational behaviour in different text-types.

Here is a more complex example. I was interested in the different collocations of different word-forms of a single lemma. In COBUILD COLLOCATIONS (Cobuild 1995), I noticed that the different forms of the lemma 'SEEK' were used quite differently. In this data-base, the top 20 collocates of the form 'seeks', in descending frequency, are

    * <female, black, male, attractive, similar, guy, lady, man, caring, professional, slim, intelligent, worldwide, friends, lesbian, woman, sincere, honest, good, non> 

These collocates are frequent due to the word-form occurring in lonely hearts ads, such as

    * female 31, single, seeks well educated gentleman 

The collocates of 'seeks' hardly overlap at all with the collocates of 'seek', 'seeking' and 'sought'. But these three forms have 6 shared collocates, largely from political and legal contexts, in the semantic field of "help and support":

    * <asylum, court, government, help, political, support> 

These findings are not a statement about the whole language, but about the text-types sampled in the corpus used for the data-base. Obviously, if the corpus had contained no magazines with lonely hearts ads, then there would be no such examples of 'seeks'. Equally obviously, the corpus must have contained enough examples to make these collocations more frequent than other collocations. It is therefore not surprising that different corpora show different patterns. The BNC contains rather different examples, from other personal adverts ('guitarist seeks working band') and from newspaper headlines ('Microsoft seeks partners'): these uses share the need to use short words. But there are also other examples from formal, including legal, texts, such as

    * where a buyer seeks to reject goods supplied under a sale contract ...
    * in his Symphonic Etudes, he consciously seeks an orchestral sonority 

The relatively formal language of the TIMES confirmed these findings: there were over 500 occurrences of 'seeks'.

The principles here are as follows. (1) If a corpus contains too many examples of a specialized text-type, this may give a misleadingly narrow view of the uses of the target word. (2) This type of bias will be increased by a method which looks at only the top 20 collocates of a word. Collocates further down the list may signal other uses.

(3) If a corpus claims to represent general usage, it should not contain too many examples of texts with a high percentage of unusual features, such as lonely hearts ads, knitting patterns, and weather forecasts. Such texts are not in daily use by substantial numbers of native speakers (Sinclair 1995: 24), and indeed many native speakers cannot fully understand their abbreviated lexis and unusual syntax.

6. CONCLUSIONS
These brief examples confirm the two principles which I proposed at the beginning of this note:

(1) Reliance on any single corpus is risky. It is best to combine: largish general corpora designed according to a sociolinguistic theory of text-type variation, small specialist corpora put together (possibly temporarily) for particular knowledge domains or text-types, and very large opportunistic text collections.

(2) Data collection should be sensitive to the types of patterns which corpus studies have shown to be characteristic of language in use. These patterns are semantic schemas which reside in an irreducible layer of organization between lexis and grammar. The prototypes of these schemas are simple and can sometimes be discovered with relatively small corpora (where relatively small = millions of running words). But to study their lexical variability, or to study the discourse prosodies around less frequent phrases, much larger text collections may be necessary.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This paper is a short footnote to work by John Sinclair, who argues that corpora should, in principle, be as large as is feasible, and who shows with many examples, that large corpora are often required to study the relations between lexis and syntax. I am grateful to Christine Spies for help with data collection and analysis. A version of this paper was presented to the Colloquium on Multilingual Corpora at the University of the Saarland, Saarbru"cken, Germany, 21 January 2000: I am grateful to Erich Steiner and his colleagues for discussion on that occasion.

REFERENCES
Cobuild (1995) Collins COBUILD English Collocations on CD-ROM. London: HarperCollins.

Fillmore, C. J. (1997) Lectures on construction grammar. Available on-line at http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/~kay/bcg/lec02.html. (Accessed 11 May 1999.)

Moon, R. (1998) Fixed Expressions and Idioms in English: A Corpus-Based Approach. Oxford: Clarendon.

Popper, K. R. (1963) Conjectures and Refutations. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.

Sinclair, J. (1995) Corpus typology: a framework for classification. In G. Melchers & B. Warren eds Studies in Anglistics. Stockholm: Almqvist & Wiksell. 17-33.

Sinclair, J. (1998) The lexical item. In E. Weigand ed Contrastive Lexical Semantics. Amsterdam: Benjamins. 1-24.

Smadja, F. (1993) Retrieving collocations from text. Xtract. Computational Linguistics, 19, 1. Also in Armstrong, S. ed. (1994) Using Large Corpora. Cambridge, Ma: MIT Press. 143-77.

Teubert, W. (1999) Corpus linguistics: a partisan view. Available on-line at http://solaris3.ids-mannheim.de/ijcl/teubert_cl.html. (Accessed 24 November 1999.)

Weigand, E. (1998) Contrastive lexical semantics. In E. Weigand ed Contrastive Lexical Semantics. Amsterdam: Benjamins. 25-44.

Anglistik, Universita"t Trier, D-54286 Trier, Germany.
Last up-dated March 2001. 

va.util
Class Arrays

java.lang.Object
  extended by java.util.Arrays

public class Arrays
extends Object

This class contains various methods for manipulating arrays (such as sorting and searching). This class also contains a static factory that allows arrays to be viewed as lists.

The methods in this class all throw a NullPointerException if the specified array reference is null, except where noted.

The documentation for the methods contained in this class includes briefs description of the implementations. Such descriptions should be regarded as implementation notes, rather than parts of the specification. Implementors should feel free to substitute other algorithms, so long as the specification itself is adhered to. (For example, the algorithm used by sort(Object[]) does not have to be a mergesort, but it does have to be stable.)

This class is a member of the Java Collections Framework.

Since:
    1.2
See Also:
    Comparable, Comparator

Method Summary
static
<T> List<T>
	asList(T... a)
          Returns a fixed-size list backed by the specified array.
static int 	binarySearch(byte[] a, byte key)
          Searches the specified array of bytes for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(char[] a, char key)
          Searches the specified array of chars for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(double[] a, double key)
          Searches the specified array of doubles for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(float[] a, float key)
          Searches the specified array of floats for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(int[] a, int key)
          Searches the specified array of ints for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(long[] a, long key)
          Searches the specified array of longs for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(Object[] a, Object key)
          Searches the specified array for the specified object using the binary search algorithm.
static int 	binarySearch(short[] a, short key)
          Searches the specified array of shorts for the specified value using the binary search algorithm.
static
<T> int
	binarySearch(T[] a, T key, Comparator<? super T> c)
          Searches the specified array for the specified object using the binary search algorithm.
static boolean 	deepEquals(Object[] a1, Object[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays are deeply equal to one another.
static int 	deepHashCode(Object[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the "deep contents" of the specified array.
static String 	deepToString(Object[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the "deep contents" of the specified array.
static boolean 	equals(boolean[] a, boolean[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of booleans are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(byte[] a, byte[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of bytes are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(char[] a, char[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of chars are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(double[] a, double[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of doubles are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(float[] a, float[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of floats are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(int[] a, int[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of ints are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(long[] a, long[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of longs are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(Object[] a, Object[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of Objects are equal to one another.
static boolean 	equals(short[] a, short[] a2)
          Returns true if the two specified arrays of shorts are equal to one another.
static void 	fill(boolean[] a, boolean val)
          Assigns the specified boolean value to each element of the specified array of booleans.
static void 	fill(boolean[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, boolean val)
          Assigns the specified boolean value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of booleans.
static void 	fill(byte[] a, byte val)
          Assigns the specified byte value to each element of the specified array of bytes.
static void 	fill(byte[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, byte val)
          Assigns the specified byte value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of bytes.
static void 	fill(char[] a, char val)
          Assigns the specified char value to each element of the specified array of chars.
static void 	fill(char[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, char val)
          Assigns the specified char value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of chars.
static void 	fill(double[] a, double val)
          Assigns the specified double value to each element of the specified array of doubles.
static void 	fill(double[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, double val)
          Assigns the specified double value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of doubles.
static void 	fill(float[] a, float val)
          Assigns the specified float value to each element of the specified array of floats.
static void 	fill(float[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, float val)
          Assigns the specified float value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of floats.
static void 	fill(int[] a, int val)
          Assigns the specified int value to each element of the specified array of ints.
static void 	fill(int[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, int val)
          Assigns the specified int value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of ints.
static void 	fill(long[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, long val)
          Assigns the specified long value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of longs.
static void 	fill(long[] a, long val)
          Assigns the specified long value to each element of the specified array of longs.
static void 	fill(Object[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, Object val)
          Assigns the specified Object reference to each element of the specified range of the specified array of Objects.
static void 	fill(Object[] a, Object val)
          Assigns the specified Object reference to each element of the specified array of Objects.
static void 	fill(short[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, short val)
          Assigns the specified short value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of shorts.
static void 	fill(short[] a, short val)
          Assigns the specified short value to each element of the specified array of shorts.
static int 	hashCode(boolean[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(byte[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(char[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(double[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(float[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(int[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(long[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(Object[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static int 	hashCode(short[] a)
          Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array.
static void 	sort(byte[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of bytes into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(byte[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of bytes into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(char[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of chars into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(char[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of chars into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(double[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of doubles into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(double[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of doubles into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(float[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of floats into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(float[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of floats into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(int[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of ints into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(int[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of ints into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(long[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of longs into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(long[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of longs into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(Object[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of objects into ascending order, according to the natural ordering of its elements.
static void 	sort(Object[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of objects into ascending order, according to the natural ordering of its elements.
static void 	sort(short[] a)
          Sorts the specified array of shorts into ascending numerical order.
static void 	sort(short[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of shorts into ascending numerical order.
static
<T> void
	sort(T[] a, Comparator<? super T> c)
          Sorts the specified array of objects according to the order induced by the specified comparator.
static
<T> void
	sort(T[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, Comparator<? super T> c)
          Sorts the specified range of the specified array of objects according to the order induced by the specified comparator.
static String 	toString(boolean[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(byte[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(char[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(double[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(float[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(int[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(long[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(Object[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
static String 	toString(short[] a)
          Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array.
 
Methods inherited from class java.lang.Object
clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, toString, wait, wait, wait
 

Method Detail
sort

public static void sort(long[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of longs into ascending numerical order. The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(long[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of longs into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(int[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of ints into ascending numerical order. The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(int[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of ints into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(short[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of shorts into ascending numerical order. The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(short[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of shorts into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(char[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of chars into ascending numerical order. The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(char[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of chars into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(byte[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of bytes into ascending numerical order. The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(byte[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of bytes into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(double[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of doubles into ascending numerical order.

    The < relation does not provide a total order on all floating-point values; although they are distinct numbers -0.0 == 0.0 is true and a NaN value compares neither less than, greater than, nor equal to any floating-point value, even itself. To allow the sort to proceed, instead of using the < relation to determine ascending numerical order, this method uses the total order imposed by Double.compareTo(java.lang.Double). This ordering differs from the < relation in that -0.0 is treated as less than 0.0 and NaN is considered greater than any other floating-point value. For the purposes of sorting, all NaN values are considered equivalent and equal.

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(double[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of doubles into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The < relation does not provide a total order on all floating-point values; although they are distinct numbers -0.0 == 0.0 is true and a NaN value compares neither less than, greater than, nor equal to any floating-point value, even itself. To allow the sort to proceed, instead of using the < relation to determine ascending numerical order, this method uses the total order imposed by Double.compareTo(java.lang.Double). This ordering differs from the < relation in that -0.0 is treated as less than 0.0 and NaN is considered greater than any other floating-point value. For the purposes of sorting, all NaN values are considered equivalent and equal.

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(float[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of floats into ascending numerical order.

    The < relation does not provide a total order on all floating-point values; although they are distinct numbers -0.0f == 0.0f is true and a NaN value compares neither less than, greater than, nor equal to any floating-point value, even itself. To allow the sort to proceed, instead of using the < relation to determine ascending numerical order, this method uses the total order imposed by Float.compareTo(java.lang.Float). This ordering differs from the < relation in that -0.0f is treated as less than 0.0f and NaN is considered greater than any other floating-point value. For the purposes of sorting, all NaN values are considered equivalent and equal.

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.

sort

public static void sort(float[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of floats into ascending numerical order. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.)

    The < relation does not provide a total order on all floating-point values; although they are distinct numbers -0.0f == 0.0f is true and a NaN value compares neither less than, greater than, nor equal to any floating-point value, even itself. To allow the sort to proceed, instead of using the < relation to determine ascending numerical order, this method uses the total order imposed by Float.compareTo(java.lang.Float). This ordering differs from the < relation in that -0.0f is treated as less than 0.0f and NaN is considered greater than any other floating-point value. For the purposes of sorting, all NaN values are considered equivalent and equal.

    The sorting algorithm is a tuned quicksort, adapted from Jon L. Bentley and M. Douglas McIlroy's "Engineering a Sort Function", Software-Practice and Experience, Vol. 23(11) P. 1249-1265 (November 1993). This algorithm offers n*log(n) performance on many data sets that cause other quicksorts to degrade to quadratic performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

sort

public static void sort(Object[] a)

    Sorts the specified array of objects into ascending order, according to the natural ordering of its elements. All elements in the array must implement the Comparable interface. Furthermore, all elements in the array must be mutually comparable (that is, e1.compareTo(e2) must not throw a ClassCastException for any elements e1 and e2 in the array).

    This sort is guaranteed to be stable: equal elements will not be reordered as a result of the sort.

    The sorting algorithm is a modified mergesort (in which the merge is omitted if the highest element in the low sublist is less than the lowest element in the high sublist). This algorithm offers guaranteed n*log(n) performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        ClassCastException - if the array contains elements that are not mutually comparable (for example, strings and integers).
    See Also:
        Comparable

sort

public static void sort(Object[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of objects into ascending order, according to the natural ordering of its elements. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.) All elements in this range must implement the Comparable interface. Furthermore, all elements in this range must be mutually comparable (that is, e1.compareTo(e2) must not throw a ClassCastException for any elements e1 and e2 in the array).

    This sort is guaranteed to be stable: equal elements will not be reordered as a result of the sort.

    The sorting algorithm is a modified mergesort (in which the merge is omitted if the highest element in the low sublist is less than the lowest element in the high sublist). This algorithm offers guaranteed n*log(n) performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length 
        ClassCastException - if the array contains elements that are not mutually comparable (for example, strings and integers).
    See Also:
        Comparable

sort

public static <T> void sort(T[] a,
                            Comparator<? super T> c)

    Sorts the specified array of objects according to the order induced by the specified comparator. All elements in the array must be mutually comparable by the specified comparator (that is, c.compare(e1, e2) must not throw a ClassCastException for any elements e1 and e2 in the array).

    This sort is guaranteed to be stable: equal elements will not be reordered as a result of the sort.

    The sorting algorithm is a modified mergesort (in which the merge is omitted if the highest element in the low sublist is less than the lowest element in the high sublist). This algorithm offers guaranteed n*log(n) performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        c - the comparator to determine the order of the array. A null value indicates that the elements' natural ordering should be used. 
    Throws:
        ClassCastException - if the array contains elements that are not mutually comparable using the specified comparator.
    See Also:
        Comparator

sort

public static <T> void sort(T[] a,
                            int fromIndex,
                            int toIndex,
                            Comparator<? super T> c)

    Sorts the specified range of the specified array of objects according to the order induced by the specified comparator. The range to be sorted extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be sorted is empty.) All elements in the range must be mutually comparable by the specified comparator (that is, c.compare(e1, e2) must not throw a ClassCastException for any elements e1 and e2 in the range).

    This sort is guaranteed to be stable: equal elements will not be reordered as a result of the sort.

    The sorting algorithm is a modified mergesort (in which the merge is omitted if the highest element in the low sublist is less than the lowest element in the high sublist). This algorithm offers guaranteed n*log(n) performance.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be sorted.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be sorted.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be sorted.
        c - the comparator to determine the order of the array. A null value indicates that the elements' natural ordering should be used. 
    Throws:
        ClassCastException - if the array contains elements that are not mutually comparable using the specified comparator. 
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length
    See Also:
        Comparator

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(long[] a,
                               long key)

    Searches the specified array of longs for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(long[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(int[] a,
                               int key)

    Searches the specified array of ints for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(int[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(short[] a,
                               short key)

    Searches the specified array of shorts for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(short[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(char[] a,
                               char key)

    Searches the specified array of chars for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(char[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(byte[] a,
                               byte key)

    Searches the specified array of bytes for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(byte[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(double[] a,
                               double key)

    Searches the specified array of doubles for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found. This method considers all NaN values to be equivalent and equal.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(double[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(float[] a,
                               float key)

    Searches the specified array of floats for the specified value using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted (as by the sort method, above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements with the specified value, there is no guarantee which one will be found. This method considers all NaN values to be equivalent and equal.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found.
    See Also:
        sort(float[])

binarySearch

public static int binarySearch(Object[] a,
                               Object key)

    Searches the specified array for the specified object using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted into ascending order according to the natural ordering of its elements (as by Sort(Object[]), above) prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. (If the array contains elements that are not mutually comparable (for example,strings and integers), it cannot be sorted according to the natural order of its elements, hence results are undefined.) If the array contains multiple elements equal to the specified object, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found. 
    Throws:
        ClassCastException - if the search key in not comparable to the elements of the array.
    See Also:
        Comparable, sort(Object[])

binarySearch

public static <T> int binarySearch(T[] a,
                                   T key,
                                   Comparator<? super T> c)

    Searches the specified array for the specified object using the binary search algorithm. The array must be sorted into ascending order according to the specified comparator (as by the Sort(Object[], Comparator) method, above), prior to making this call. If it is not sorted, the results are undefined. If the array contains multiple elements equal to the specified object, there is no guarantee which one will be found.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be searched.
        key - the value to be searched for.
        c - the comparator by which the array is ordered. A null value indicates that the elements' natural ordering should be used. 
    Returns:
        index of the search key, if it is contained in the list; otherwise, (-(insertion point) - 1). The insertion point is defined as the point at which the key would be inserted into the list: the index of the first element greater than the key, or list.size(), if all elements in the list are less than the specified key. Note that this guarantees that the return value will be >= 0 if and only if the key is found. 
    Throws:
        ClassCastException - if the array contains elements that are not mutually comparable using the specified comparator, or the search key in not mutually comparable with the elements of the array using this comparator.
    See Also:
        Comparable, sort(Object[], Comparator)

equals

public static boolean equals(long[] a,
                             long[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of longs are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

equals

public static boolean equals(int[] a,
                             int[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of ints are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

equals

public static boolean equals(short[] a,
                             short[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of shorts are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

equals

public static boolean equals(char[] a,
                             char[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of chars are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

equals

public static boolean equals(byte[] a,
                             byte[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of bytes are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

equals

public static boolean equals(boolean[] a,
                             boolean[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of booleans are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

equals

public static boolean equals(double[] a,
                             double[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of doubles are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Two doubles d1 and d2 are considered equal if:

        new Double(d1).equals(new Double(d2))

    (Unlike the == operator, this method considers NaN equals to itself, and 0.0d unequal to -0.0d.)

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.
    See Also:
        Double.equals(Object)

equals

public static boolean equals(float[] a,
                             float[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of floats are equal to one another. Two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. In other words, two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Two floats f1 and f2 are considered equal if:

        new Float(f1).equals(new Float(f2))

    (Unlike the == operator, this method considers NaN equals to itself, and 0.0f unequal to -0.0f.)

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.
    See Also:
        Float.equals(Object)

equals

public static boolean equals(Object[] a,
                             Object[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays of Objects are equal to one another. The two arrays are considered equal if both arrays contain the same number of elements, and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are equal. Two objects e1 and e2 are considered equal if (e1==null ? e2==null : e1.equals(e2)). In other words, the two arrays are equal if they contain the same elements in the same order. Also, two array references are considered equal if both are null.

    Parameters:
        a - one array to be tested for equality.
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality. 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal.

fill

public static void fill(long[] a,
                        long val)

    Assigns the specified long value to each element of the specified array of longs.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(long[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        long val)

    Assigns the specified long value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of longs. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(int[] a,
                        int val)

    Assigns the specified int value to each element of the specified array of ints.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(int[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        int val)

    Assigns the specified int value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of ints. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(short[] a,
                        short val)

    Assigns the specified short value to each element of the specified array of shorts.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(short[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        short val)

    Assigns the specified short value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of shorts. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(char[] a,
                        char val)

    Assigns the specified char value to each element of the specified array of chars.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(char[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        char val)

    Assigns the specified char value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of chars. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(byte[] a,
                        byte val)

    Assigns the specified byte value to each element of the specified array of bytes.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(byte[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        byte val)

    Assigns the specified byte value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of bytes. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(boolean[] a,
                        boolean val)

    Assigns the specified boolean value to each element of the specified array of booleans.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(boolean[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        boolean val)

    Assigns the specified boolean value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of booleans. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(double[] a,
                        double val)

    Assigns the specified double value to each element of the specified array of doubles.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(double[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        double val)

    Assigns the specified double value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of doubles. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(float[] a,
                        float val)

    Assigns the specified float value to each element of the specified array of floats.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(float[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        float val)

    Assigns the specified float value to each element of the specified range of the specified array of floats. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

fill

public static void fill(Object[] a,
                        Object val)

    Assigns the specified Object reference to each element of the specified array of Objects.

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array.

fill

public static void fill(Object[] a,
                        int fromIndex,
                        int toIndex,
                        Object val)

    Assigns the specified Object reference to each element of the specified range of the specified array of Objects. The range to be filled extends from index fromIndex, inclusive, to index toIndex, exclusive. (If fromIndex==toIndex, the range to be filled is empty.)

    Parameters:
        a - the array to be filled.
        fromIndex - the index of the first element (inclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        toIndex - the index of the last element (exclusive) to be filled with the specified value.
        val - the value to be stored in all elements of the array. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if fromIndex > toIndex 
        ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException - if fromIndex < 0 or toIndex > a.length

asList

public static <T> List<T> asList(T... a)

    Returns a fixed-size list backed by the specified array. (Changes to the returned list "write through" to the array.) This method acts as bridge between array-based and collection-based APIs, in combination with Collection.toArray. The returned list is serializable and implements RandomAccess.

    This method also provides a convenient way to create a fixed-size list initialized to contain several elements:

         List stooges = Arrays.asList("Larry", "Moe", "Curly");
     

    Parameters:
        a - the array by which the list will be backed. 
    Returns:
        a list view of the specified array.
    See Also:
        Collection.toArray()

hashCode

public static int hashCode(long[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two long arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Long instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(int[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two non-null int arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Integer instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(short[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two short arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Short instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(char[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two char arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Character instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(byte[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two byte arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Byte instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(boolean[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two boolean arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Boolean instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(float[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two float arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Float instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(double[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. For any two double arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is the same value that would be obtained by invoking the hashCode method on a List containing a sequence of Double instances representing the elements of a in the same order. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose hash value to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5

hashCode

public static int hashCode(Object[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the contents of the specified array. If the array contains other arrays as elements, the hash code is based on their identities rather than their contents. It is therefore acceptable to invoke this method on an array that contains itself as an element, either directly or indirectly through one or more levels of arrays.

    For any two arrays a and b such that Arrays.equals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.hashCode(a) == Arrays.hashCode(b).

    The value returned by this method is equal to the value that would be returned by Arrays.asList(a).hashCode(), unless a is null, in which case 0 is returned.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose content-based hash code to compute 
    Returns:
        a content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5
    See Also:
        deepHashCode(Object[])

deepHashCode

public static int deepHashCode(Object[] a)

    Returns a hash code based on the "deep contents" of the specified array. If the array contains other arrays as elements, the hash code is based on their contents and so on, ad infinitum. It is therefore unacceptable to invoke this method on an array that contains itself as an element, either directly or indirectly through one or more levels of arrays. The behavior of such an invocation is undefined.

    For any two arrays a and b such that Arrays.deepEquals(a, b), it is also the case that Arrays.deepHashCode(a) == Arrays.deepHashCode(b).

    The computation of the value returned by this method is similar to that of the value returned by List.hashCode() on a list containing the same elements as a in the same order, with one difference: If an element e of a is itself an array, its hash code is computed not by calling e.hashCode(), but as by calling the appropriate overloading of Arrays.hashCode(e) if e is an array of a primitive type, or as by calling Arrays.deepHashCode(e) recursively if e is an array of a reference type. If a is null, this method returns 0.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose deep-content-based hash code to compute 
    Returns:
        a deep-content-based hash code for a
    Since:
        1.5
    See Also:
        hashCode(Object[])

deepEquals

public static boolean deepEquals(Object[] a1,
                                 Object[] a2)

    Returns true if the two specified arrays are deeply equal to one another. Unlike the @link{#equals{Object[],Object[]) method, this method is appropriate for use with nested arrays of arbitrary depth.

    Two array references are considered deeply equal if both are null, or if they refer to arrays that contain the same number of elements and all corresponding pairs of elements in the two arrays are deeply equal.

    Two possibly null elements e1 and e2 are deeply equal if any of the following conditions hold:

        * e1 and e2 are both arrays of object reference types, and Arrays.deepEquals(e1, e2) would return true
        * e1 and e2 are arrays of the same primitive type, and the appropriate overloading of Arrays.equals(e1, e2) would return true.
        * e1 == e2
        * e1.equals(e2) would return true. 

    Note that this definition permits null elements at any depth.

    If either of the specified arrays contain themselves as elements either directly or indirectly through one or more levels of arrays, the behavior of this method is undefined.

    Parameters:
        a1 - one array to be tested for equality
        a2 - the other array to be tested for equality 
    Returns:
        true if the two arrays are equal
    Since:
        1.5
    See Also:
        equals(Object[],Object[])

toString

public static String toString(long[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(long). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(int[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(int). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(short[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(short). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(char[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(char). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(byte[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(byte). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(boolean[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(boolean). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(float[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(float). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(double[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(double). Returns "null" if a is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5

toString

public static String toString(Object[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the contents of the specified array. If the array contains other arrays as elements, they are converted to strings by the Object.toString() method inherited from Object, which describes their identities rather than their contents.

    The value returned by this method is equal to the value that would be returned by Arrays.asList(a).toString(), unless a is null, in which case "null" is returned.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5
    See Also:
        deepToString(Object[])

deepToString

public static String deepToString(Object[] a)

    Returns a string representation of the "deep contents" of the specified array. If the array contains other arrays as elements, the string representation contains their contents and so on. This method is designed for converting multidimensional arrays to strings.

    The string representation consists of a list of the array's elements, enclosed in square brackets ("[]"). Adjacent elements are separated by the characters ", " (a comma followed by a space). Elements are converted to strings as by String.valueOf(Object), unless they are themselves arrays.

    If an element e is an array of a primitive type, it is converted to a string as by invoking the appropriate overloading of Arrays.toString(e). If an element e is an array of a reference type, it is converted to a string as by invoking this method recursively.

    To avoid infinite recursion, if the specified array contains itself as an element, or contains an indirect reference to itself through one or more levels of arrays, the self-reference is converted to the string "[...]". For example, an array containing only a reference to itself would be rendered as "[[...]]".

    This method returns "null" if the specified array is null.

    Parameters:
        a - the array whose string representation to return 
    Returns:
        a string representation of a
    Since:
        1.5
    See Also:
        toString(Object[])

Overview  	Package  	 Class  	Use  	Tree  	Deprecated  	Index  	Help 
	JavaTM 2 Platform
Standard Ed. 5.0
 PREV CLASS   NEXT CLASS 	FRAMES    NO FRAMES    
SUMMARY: NESTED | FIELD | CONSTR | METHOD 	DETAIL: FIELD | CONSTR | METHOD
Submit a bug or feature
For further API reference and developer documentation, see Java 2 SDK SE Developer Documentation. That documentation contains more detailed, developer-targeted descriptions, with conceptual overviews, definitions of terms, workarounds, and working code examples.

Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved. Use is subject to license terms. Also see the documentation redistribution policy. 

a.util
Class Hashtable<K,V>

java.lang.Object
  extended by java.util.Dictionary<K,V>
      extended by java.util.Hashtable<K,V>

All Implemented Interfaces:
    Serializable, Cloneable, Map<K,V>

Direct Known Subclasses:
    Properties, UIDefaults

public class Hashtable<K,V>
extends Dictionary<K,V>
implements Map<K,V>, Cloneable, Serializable

This class implements a hashtable, which maps keys to values. Any non-null object can be used as a key or as a value.

To successfully store and retrieve objects from a hashtable, the objects used as keys must implement the hashCode method and the equals method.

An instance of Hashtable has two parameters that affect its performance: initial capacity and load factor. The capacity is the number of buckets in the hash table, and the initial capacity is simply the capacity at the time the hash table is created. Note that the hash table is open: in the case of a "hash collision", a single bucket stores multiple entries, which must be searched sequentially. The load factor is a measure of how full the hash table is allowed to get before its capacity is automatically increased. The initial capacity and load factor parameters are merely hints to the implementation. The exact details as to when and whether the rehash method is invoked are implementation-dependent.

Generally, the default load factor (.75) offers a good tradeoff between time and space costs. Higher values decrease the space overhead but increase the time cost to look up an entry (which is reflected in most Hashtable operations, including get and put).

The initial capacity controls a tradeoff between wasted space and the need for rehash operations, which are time-consuming. No rehash operations will ever occur if the initial capacity is greater than the maximum number of entries the Hashtable will contain divided by its load factor. However, setting the initial capacity too high can waste space.

If many entries are to be made into a Hashtable, creating it with a sufficiently large capacity may allow the entries to be inserted more efficiently than letting it perform automatic rehashing as needed to grow the table.

This example creates a hashtable of numbers. It uses the names of the numbers as keys:

         Hashtable numbers = new Hashtable();
         numbers.put("one", new Integer(1));
         numbers.put("two", new Integer(2));
         numbers.put("three", new Integer(3));
     

To retrieve a number, use the following code:

         Integer n = (Integer)numbers.get("two");
         if (n != null) {
             System.out.println("two = " + n);
         }
     

As of the Java 2 platform v1.2, this class has been retrofitted to implement Map, so that it becomes a part of Java's collection framework. Unlike the new collection implementations, Hashtable is synchronized.

The Iterators returned by the iterator and listIterator methods of the Collections returned by all of Hashtable's "collection view methods" are fail-fast: if the Hashtable is structurally modified at any time after the Iterator is created, in any way except through the Iterator's own remove or add methods, the Iterator will throw a ConcurrentModificationException. Thus, in the face of concurrent modification, the Iterator fails quickly and cleanly, rather than risking arbitrary, non-deterministic behavior at an undetermined time in the future. The Enumerations returned by Hashtable's keys and values methods are not fail-fast.

Note that the fail-fast behavior of an iterator cannot be guaranteed as it is, generally speaking, impossible to make any hard guarantees in the presence of unsynchronized concurrent modification. Fail-fast iterators throw ConcurrentModificationException on a best-effort basis. Therefore, it would be wrong to write a program that depended on this exception for its correctness: the fail-fast behavior of iterators should be used only to detect bugs.

This class is a member of the Java Collections Framework.

Since:
    JDK1.0
See Also:
    Object.equals(java.lang.Object), Object.hashCode(), rehash(), Collection, Map, HashMap, TreeMap, Serialized Form

Constructor Summary
Hashtable()
          Constructs a new, empty hashtable with a default initial capacity (11) and load factor, which is 0.75.
Hashtable(int initialCapacity)
          Constructs a new, empty hashtable with the specified initial capacity and default load factor, which is 0.75.
Hashtable(int initialCapacity, float loadFactor)
          Constructs a new, empty hashtable with the specified initial capacity and the specified load factor.
Hashtable(Map<? extends K,? extends V> t)
          Constructs a new hashtable with the same mappings as the given Map.
 
Method Summary
 void 	clear()
          Clears this hashtable so that it contains no keys.
 Object 	clone()
          Creates a shallow copy of this hashtable.
 boolean 	contains(Object value)
          Tests if some key maps into the specified value in this hashtable.
 boolean 	containsKey(Object key)
          Tests if the specified object is a key in this hashtable.
 boolean 	containsValue(Object value)
          Returns true if this Hashtable maps one or more keys to this value.
 Enumeration<V> 	elements()
          Returns an enumeration of the values in this hashtable.
 Set<Map.Entry<K,V>> 	entrySet()
          Returns a Set view of the entries contained in this Hashtable.
 boolean 	equals(Object o)
          Compares the specified Object with this Map for equality, as per the definition in the Map interface.
 V 	get(Object key)
          Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped in this hashtable.
 int 	hashCode()
          Returns the hash code value for this Map as per the definition in the Map interface.
 boolean 	isEmpty()
          Tests if this hashtable maps no keys to values.
 Enumeration<K> 	keys()
          Returns an enumeration of the keys in this hashtable.
 Set<K> 	keySet()
          Returns a Set view of the keys contained in this Hashtable.
 V 	put(K key, V value)
          Maps the specified key to the specified value in this hashtable.
 void 	putAll(Map<? extends K,? extends V> t)
          Copies all of the mappings from the specified Map to this Hashtable These mappings will replace any mappings that this Hashtable had for any of the keys currently in the specified Map.
protected  void 	rehash()
          Increases the capacity of and internally reorganizes this hashtable, in order to accommodate and access its entries more efficiently.
 V 	remove(Object key)
          Removes the key (and its corresponding value) from this hashtable.
 int 	size()
          Returns the number of keys in this hashtable.
 String 	toString()
          Returns a string representation of this Hashtable object in the form of a set of entries, enclosed in braces and separated by the ASCII characters ", " (comma and space).
 Collection<V> 	values()
          Returns a Collection view of the values contained in this Hashtable.
 
Methods inherited from class java.lang.Object
finalize, getClass, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait
 

Constructor Detail
Hashtable

public Hashtable(int initialCapacity,
                 float loadFactor)

    Constructs a new, empty hashtable with the specified initial capacity and the specified load factor.

    Parameters:
        initialCapacity - the initial capacity of the hashtable.
        loadFactor - the load factor of the hashtable. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if the initial capacity is less than zero, or if the load factor is nonpositive.

Hashtable

public Hashtable(int initialCapacity)

    Constructs a new, empty hashtable with the specified initial capacity and default load factor, which is 0.75.

    Parameters:
        initialCapacity - the initial capacity of the hashtable. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if the initial capacity is less than zero.

Hashtable

public Hashtable()

    Constructs a new, empty hashtable with a default initial capacity (11) and load factor, which is 0.75.

Hashtable

public Hashtable(Map<? extends K,? extends V> t)

    Constructs a new hashtable with the same mappings as the given Map. The hashtable is created with an initial capacity sufficient to hold the mappings in the given Map and a default load factor, which is 0.75.

    Parameters:
        t - the map whose mappings are to be placed in this map. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the specified map is null.
    Since:
        1.2

Method Detail
size

public int size()

    Returns the number of keys in this hashtable.

    Specified by:
        size in interface Map<K,V>
    Specified by:
        size in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Returns:
        the number of keys in this hashtable.

isEmpty

public boolean isEmpty()

    Tests if this hashtable maps no keys to values.

    Specified by:
        isEmpty in interface Map<K,V>
    Specified by:
        isEmpty in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Returns:
        true if this hashtable maps no keys to values; false otherwise.

keys

public Enumeration<K> keys()

    Returns an enumeration of the keys in this hashtable.

    Specified by:
        keys in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Returns:
        an enumeration of the keys in this hashtable.
    See Also:
        Enumeration, elements(), keySet(), Map

elements

public Enumeration<V> elements()

    Returns an enumeration of the values in this hashtable. Use the Enumeration methods on the returned object to fetch the elements sequentially.

    Specified by:
        elements in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Returns:
        an enumeration of the values in this hashtable.
    See Also:
        Enumeration, keys(), values(), Map

contains

public boolean contains(Object value)

    Tests if some key maps into the specified value in this hashtable. This operation is more expensive than the containsKey method.

    Note that this method is identical in functionality to containsValue, (which is part of the Map interface in the collections framework).

    Parameters:
        value - a value to search for. 
    Returns:
        true if and only if some key maps to the value argument in this hashtable as determined by the equals method; false otherwise. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the value is null.
    See Also:
        containsKey(Object), containsValue(Object), Map

containsValue

public boolean containsValue(Object value)

    Returns true if this Hashtable maps one or more keys to this value.

    Note that this method is identical in functionality to contains (which predates the Map interface).

    Specified by:
        containsValue in interface Map<K,V>

    Parameters:
        value - value whose presence in this Hashtable is to be tested. 
    Returns:
        true if this map maps one or more keys to the specified value. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the value is null.
    Since:
        1.2
    See Also:
        Map

containsKey

public boolean containsKey(Object key)

    Tests if the specified object is a key in this hashtable.

    Specified by:
        containsKey in interface Map<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - possible key. 
    Returns:
        true if and only if the specified object is a key in this hashtable, as determined by the equals method; false otherwise. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the key is null.
    See Also:
        contains(Object)

get

public V get(Object key)

    Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped in this hashtable.

    Specified by:
        get in interface Map<K,V>
    Specified by:
        get in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - a key in the hashtable. 
    Returns:
        the value to which the key is mapped in this hashtable; null if the key is not mapped to any value in this hashtable. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the key is null.
    See Also:
        put(Object, Object)

rehash

protected void rehash()

    Increases the capacity of and internally reorganizes this hashtable, in order to accommodate and access its entries more efficiently. This method is called automatically when the number of keys in the hashtable exceeds this hashtable's capacity and load factor.

put

public V put(K key,
             V value)

    Maps the specified key to the specified value in this hashtable. Neither the key nor the value can be null.

    The value can be retrieved by calling the get method with a key that is equal to the original key.

    Specified by:
        put in interface Map<K,V>
    Specified by:
        put in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - the hashtable key.
        value - the value. 
    Returns:
        the previous value of the specified key in this hashtable, or null if it did not have one. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the key or value is null.
    See Also:
        Object.equals(Object), get(Object)

remove

public V remove(Object key)

    Removes the key (and its corresponding value) from this hashtable. This method does nothing if the key is not in the hashtable.

    Specified by:
        remove in interface Map<K,V>
    Specified by:
        remove in class Dictionary<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - the key that needs to be removed. 
    Returns:
        the value to which the key had been mapped in this hashtable, or null if the key did not have a mapping. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the key is null.

putAll

public void putAll(Map<? extends K,? extends V> t)

    Copies all of the mappings from the specified Map to this Hashtable These mappings will replace any mappings that this Hashtable had for any of the keys currently in the specified Map.

    Specified by:
        putAll in interface Map<K,V>

    Parameters:
        t - Mappings to be stored in this map. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the specified map is null.
    Since:
        1.2

clear

public void clear()

    Clears this hashtable so that it contains no keys.

    Specified by:
        clear in interface Map<K,V>

clone

public Object clone()

    Creates a shallow copy of this hashtable. All the structure of the hashtable itself is copied, but the keys and values are not cloned. This is a relatively expensive operation.

    Overrides:
        clone in class Object

    Returns:
        a clone of the hashtable.
    See Also:
        Cloneable

toString

public String toString()

    Returns a string representation of this Hashtable object in the form of a set of entries, enclosed in braces and separated by the ASCII characters ", " (comma and space). Each entry is rendered as the key, an equals sign =, and the associated element, where the toString method is used to convert the key and element to strings.

    Overrides to toString method of Object.

    Overrides:
        toString in class Object

    Returns:
        a string representation of this hashtable.

keySet

public Set<K> keySet()

    Returns a Set view of the keys contained in this Hashtable. The Set is backed by the Hashtable, so changes to the Hashtable are reflected in the Set, and vice-versa. The Set supports element removal (which removes the corresponding entry from the Hashtable), but not element addition.

    Specified by:
        keySet in interface Map<K,V>

    Returns:
        a set view of the keys contained in this map.
    Since:
        1.2

entrySet

public Set<Map.Entry<K,V>> entrySet()

    Returns a Set view of the entries contained in this Hashtable. Each element in this collection is a Map.Entry. The Set is backed by the Hashtable, so changes to the Hashtable are reflected in the Set, and vice-versa. The Set supports element removal (which removes the corresponding entry from the Hashtable), but not element addition.

    Specified by:
        entrySet in interface Map<K,V>

    Returns:
        a set view of the mappings contained in this map.
    Since:
        1.2
    See Also:
        Map.Entry

values

public Collection<V> values()

    Returns a Collection view of the values contained in this Hashtable. The Collection is backed by the Hashtable, so changes to the Hashtable are reflected in the Collection, and vice-versa. The Collection supports element removal (which removes the corresponding entry from the Hashtable), but not element addition.

    Specified by:
        values in interface Map<K,V>

    Returns:
        a collection view of the values contained in this map.
    Since:
        1.2

equals

public boolean equals(Object o)

    Compares the specified Object with this Map for equality, as per the definition in the Map interface.

    Specified by:
        equals in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        equals in class Object

    Parameters:
        o - object to be compared for equality with this Hashtable 
    Returns:
        true if the specified Object is equal to this Map.
    Since:
        1.2
    See Also:
        Map.equals(Object)

hashCode

public int hashCode()

    Returns the hash code value for this Map as per the definition in the Map interface.

    Specified by:
        hashCode in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        hashCode in class Object

    Returns:
        a hash code value for this object.
    Since:
        1.2
    See Also:
        Map.hashCode()


Class HashMap<K,V>

java.lang.Object
  extended by java.util.AbstractMap<K,V>
      extended by java.util.HashMap<K,V>

All Implemented Interfaces:
    Serializable, Cloneable, Map<K,V>

Direct Known Subclasses:
    LinkedHashMap, PrinterStateReasons

public class HashMap<K,V>
extends AbstractMap<K,V>
implements Map<K,V>, Cloneable, Serializable

Hash table based implementation of the Map interface. This implementation provides all of the optional map operations, and permits null values and the null key. (The HashMap class is roughly equivalent to Hashtable, except that it is unsynchronized and permits nulls.) This class makes no guarantees as to the order of the map; in particular, it does not guarantee that the order will remain constant over time.

This implementation provides constant-time performance for the basic operations (get and put), assuming the hash function disperses the elements properly among the buckets. Iteration over collection views requires time proportional to the "capacity" of the HashMap instance (the number of buckets) plus its size (the number of key-value mappings). Thus, it's very important not to set the initial capacity too high (or the load factor too low) if iteration performance is important.

An instance of HashMap has two parameters that affect its performance: initial capacity and load factor. The capacity is the number of buckets in the hash table, and the initial capacity is simply the capacity at the time the hash table is created. The load factor is a measure of how full the hash table is allowed to get before its capacity is automatically increased. When the number of entries in the hash table exceeds the product of the load factor and the current capacity, the capacity is roughly doubled by calling the rehash method.

As a general rule, the default load factor (.75) offers a good tradeoff between time and space costs. Higher values decrease the space overhead but increase the lookup cost (reflected in most of the operations of the HashMap class, including get and put). The expected number of entries in the map and its load factor should be taken into account when setting its initial capacity, so as to minimize the number of rehash operations. If the initial capacity is greater than the maximum number of entries divided by the load factor, no rehash operations will ever occur.

If many mappings are to be stored in a HashMap instance, creating it with a sufficiently large capacity will allow the mappings to be stored more efficiently than letting it perform automatic rehashing as needed to grow the table.

Note that this implementation is not synchronized. If multiple threads access this map concurrently, and at least one of the threads modifies the map structurally, it must be synchronized externally. (A structural modification is any operation that adds or deletes one or more mappings; merely changing the value associated with a key that an instance already contains is not a structural modification.) This is typically accomplished by synchronizing on some object that naturally encapsulates the map. If no such object exists, the map should be "wrapped" using the Collections.synchronizedMap method. This is best done at creation time, to prevent accidental unsynchronized access to the map:

 Map m = Collections.synchronizedMap(new HashMap(...));
 

The iterators returned by all of this class's "collection view methods" are fail-fast: if the map is structurally modified at any time after the iterator is created, in any way except through the iterator's own remove or add methods, the iterator will throw a ConcurrentModificationException. Thus, in the face of concurrent modification, the iterator fails quickly and cleanly, rather than risking arbitrary, non-deterministic behavior at an undetermined time in the future.

Note that the fail-fast behavior of an iterator cannot be guaranteed as it is, generally speaking, impossible to make any hard guarantees in the presence of unsynchronized concurrent modification. Fail-fast iterators throw ConcurrentModificationException on a best-effort basis. Therefore, it would be wrong to write a program that depended on this exception for its correctness: the fail-fast behavior of iterators should be used only to detect bugs.

This class is a member of the Java Collections Framework.

Since:
    1.2
See Also:
    Object.hashCode(), Collection, Map, TreeMap, Hashtable, Serialized Form

Constructor Summary
HashMap()
          Constructs an empty HashMap with the default initial capacity (16) and the default load factor (0.75).
HashMap(int initialCapacity)
          Constructs an empty HashMap with the specified initial capacity and the default load factor (0.75).
HashMap(int initialCapacity, float loadFactor)
          Constructs an empty HashMap with the specified initial capacity and load factor.
HashMap(Map<? extends K,? extends V> m)
          Constructs a new HashMap with the same mappings as the specified Map.
 
Method Summary
 void 	clear()
          Removes all mappings from this map.
 Object 	clone()
          Returns a shallow copy of this HashMap instance: the keys and values themselves are not cloned.
 boolean 	containsKey(Object key)
          Returns true if this map contains a mapping for the specified key.
 boolean 	containsValue(Object value)
          Returns true if this map maps one or more keys to the specified value.
 Set<Map.Entry<K,V>> 	entrySet()
          Returns a collection view of the mappings contained in this map.
 V 	get(Object key)
          Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped in this identity hash map, or null if the map contains no mapping for this key.
 boolean 	isEmpty()
          Returns true if this map contains no key-value mappings.
 Set<K> 	keySet()
          Returns a set view of the keys contained in this map.
 V 	put(K key, V value)
          Associates the specified value with the specified key in this map.
 void 	putAll(Map<? extends K,? extends V> m)
          Copies all of the mappings from the specified map to this map These mappings will replace any mappings that this map had for any of the keys currently in the specified map.
 V 	remove(Object key)
          Removes the mapping for this key from this map if present.
 int 	size()
          Returns the number of key-value mappings in this map.
 Collection<V> 	values()
          Returns a collection view of the values contained in this map.
 
Methods inherited from class java.util.AbstractMap
equals, hashCode, toString
 
Methods inherited from class java.lang.Object
finalize, getClass, notify, notifyAll, wait, wait, wait
 
Methods inherited from interface java.util.Map
equals, hashCode
 

Constructor Detail
HashMap

public HashMap(int initialCapacity,
               float loadFactor)

    Constructs an empty HashMap with the specified initial capacity and load factor.

    Parameters:
        initialCapacity - The initial capacity.
        loadFactor - The load factor. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if the initial capacity is negative or the load factor is nonpositive.

HashMap

public HashMap(int initialCapacity)

    Constructs an empty HashMap with the specified initial capacity and the default load factor (0.75).

    Parameters:
        initialCapacity - the initial capacity. 
    Throws:
        IllegalArgumentException - if the initial capacity is negative.

HashMap

public HashMap()

    Constructs an empty HashMap with the default initial capacity (16) and the default load factor (0.75).

HashMap

public HashMap(Map<? extends K,? extends V> m)

    Constructs a new HashMap with the same mappings as the specified Map. The HashMap is created with default load factor (0.75) and an initial capacity sufficient to hold the mappings in the specified Map.

    Parameters:
        m - the map whose mappings are to be placed in this map. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the specified map is null.

Method Detail
size

public int size()

    Returns the number of key-value mappings in this map.

    Specified by:
        size in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        size in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Returns:
        the number of key-value mappings in this map.

isEmpty

public boolean isEmpty()

    Returns true if this map contains no key-value mappings.

    Specified by:
        isEmpty in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        isEmpty in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Returns:
        true if this map contains no key-value mappings.

get

public V get(Object key)

    Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped in this identity hash map, or null if the map contains no mapping for this key. A return value of null does not necessarily indicate that the map contains no mapping for the key; it is also possible that the map explicitly maps the key to null. The containsKey method may be used to distinguish these two cases.

    Specified by:
        get in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        get in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - the key whose associated value is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        the value to which this map maps the specified key, or null if the map contains no mapping for this key.
    See Also:
        put(Object, Object)

containsKey

public boolean containsKey(Object key)

    Returns true if this map contains a mapping for the specified key.

    Specified by:
        containsKey in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        containsKey in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - The key whose presence in this map is to be tested 
    Returns:
        true if this map contains a mapping for the specified key.

put

public V put(K key,
             V value)

    Associates the specified value with the specified key in this map. If the map previously contained a mapping for this key, the old value is replaced.

    Specified by:
        put in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        put in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - key with which the specified value is to be associated.
        value - value to be associated with the specified key. 
    Returns:
        previous value associated with specified key, or null if there was no mapping for key. A null return can also indicate that the HashMap previously associated null with the specified key.

putAll

public void putAll(Map<? extends K,? extends V> m)

    Copies all of the mappings from the specified map to this map These mappings will replace any mappings that this map had for any of the keys currently in the specified map.

    Specified by:
        putAll in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        putAll in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Parameters:
        m - mappings to be stored in this map. 
    Throws:
        NullPointerException - if the specified map is null.

remove

public V remove(Object key)

    Removes the mapping for this key from this map if present.

    Specified by:
        remove in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        remove in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Parameters:
        key - key whose mapping is to be removed from the map. 
    Returns:
        previous value associated with specified key, or null if there was no mapping for key. A null return can also indicate that the map previously associated null with the specified key.

clear

public void clear()

    Removes all mappings from this map.

    Specified by:
        clear in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        clear in class AbstractMap<K,V>

containsValue

public boolean containsValue(Object value)

    Returns true if this map maps one or more keys to the specified value.

    Specified by:
        containsValue in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        containsValue in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Parameters:
        value - value whose presence in this map is to be tested. 
    Returns:
        true if this map maps one or more keys to the specified value.

clone

public Object clone()

    Returns a shallow copy of this HashMap instance: the keys and values themselves are not cloned.

    Overrides:
        clone in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Returns:
        a shallow copy of this map.
    See Also:
        Cloneable

keySet

public Set<K> keySet()

    Returns a set view of the keys contained in this map. The set is backed by the map, so changes to the map are reflected in the set, and vice-versa. The set supports element removal, which removes the corresponding mapping from this map, via the Iterator.remove, Set.remove, removeAll, retainAll, and clear operations. It does not support the add or addAll operations.

    Specified by:
        keySet in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        keySet in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Returns:
        a set view of the keys contained in this map.

values

public Collection<V> values()

    Returns a collection view of the values contained in this map. The collection is backed by the map, so changes to the map are reflected in the collection, and vice-versa. The collection supports element removal, which removes the corresponding mapping from this map, via the Iterator.remove, Collection.remove, removeAll, retainAll, and clear operations. It does not support the add or addAll operations.

    Specified by:
        values in interface Map<K,V>
    Overrides:
        values in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Returns:
        a collection view of the values contained in this map.

entrySet

public Set<Map.Entry<K,V>> entrySet()

    Returns a collection view of the mappings contained in this map. Each element in the returned collection is a Map.Entry. The collection is backed by the map, so changes to the map are reflected in the collection, and vice-versa. The collection supports element removal, which removes the corresponding mapping from the map, via the Iterator.remove, Collection.remove, removeAll, retainAll, and clear operations. It does not support the add or addAll operations.

    Specified by:
        entrySet in interface Map<K,V>
    Specified by:
        entrySet in class AbstractMap<K,V>

    Returns:
        a collection view of the mappings contained in this map.
    See Also:
        Map.Entry

java.lang
Class Math

java.lang.Object
  extended by java.lang.Math

public final class Math
extends Object

The class Math contains methods for performing basic numeric operations such as the elementary exponential, logarithm, square root, and trigonometric functions.

Unlike some of the numeric methods of class StrictMath, all implementations of the equivalent functions of class Math are not defined to return the bit-for-bit same results. This relaxation permits better-performing implementations where strict reproducibility is not required.

By default many of the Math methods simply call the equivalent method in StrictMath for their implementation. Code generators are encouraged to use platform-specific native libraries or microprocessor instructions, where available, to provide higher-performance implementations of Math methods. Such higher-performance implementations still must conform to the specification for Math.

The quality of implementation specifications concern two properties, accuracy of the returned result and monotonicity of the method. Accuracy of the floating-point Math methods is measured in terms of ulps, units in the last place. For a given floating-point format, an ulp of a specific real number value is the distance between the two floating-point values bracketing that numerical value. When discussing the accuracy of a method as a whole rather than at a specific argument, the number of ulps cited is for the worst-case error at any argument. If a method always has an error less than 0.5 ulps, the method always returns the floating-point number nearest the exact result; such a method is correctly rounded. A correctly rounded method is generally the best a floating-point approximation can be; however, it is impractical for many floating-point methods to be correctly rounded. Instead, for the Math class, a larger error bound of 1 or 2 ulps is allowed for certain methods. Informally, with a 1 ulp error bound, when the exact result is a representable number, the exact result should be returned as the computed result; otherwise, either of the two floating-point values which bracket the exact result may be returned. For exact results large in magnitude, one of the endpoints of the bracket may be infinite. Besides accuracy at individual arguments, maintaining proper relations between the method at different arguments is also important. Therefore, most methods with more than 0.5 ulp errors are required to be semi-monotonic: whenever the mathematical function is non-decreasing, so is the floating-point approximation, likewise, whenever the mathematical function is non-increasing, so is the floating-point approximation. Not all approximations that have 1 ulp accuracy will automatically meet the monotonicity requirements.

Since:
    JDK1.0

Field Summary
static double 	E
          The double value that is closer than any other to e, the base of the natural logarithms.
static double 	PI
          The double value that is closer than any other to pi, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter.
 
Method Summary
static double 	abs(double a)
          Returns the absolute value of a double value.
static float 	abs(float a)
          Returns the absolute value of a float value.
static int 	abs(int a)
          Returns the absolute value of an int value.
static long 	abs(long a)
          Returns the absolute value of a long value.
static double 	acos(double a)
          Returns the arc cosine of an angle, in the range of 0.0 through pi.
static double 	asin(double a)
          Returns the arc sine of an angle, in the range of -pi/2 through pi/2.
static double 	atan(double a)
          Returns the arc tangent of an angle, in the range of -pi/2 through pi/2.
static double 	atan2(double y, double x)
          Converts rectangular coordinates (x, y) to polar (r, theta).
static double 	cbrt(double a)
          Returns the cube root of a double value.
static double 	ceil(double a)
          Returns the smallest (closest to negative infinity) double value that is greater than or equal to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer.
static double 	cos(double a)
          Returns the trigonometric cosine of an angle.
static double 	cosh(double x)
          Returns the hyperbolic cosine of a double value.
static double 	exp(double a)
          Returns Euler's number e raised to the power of a double value.
static double 	expm1(double x)
          Returns ex -1.
static double 	floor(double a)
          Returns the largest (closest to positive infinity) double value that is less than or equal to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer.
static double 	hypot(double x, double y)
          Returns sqrt(x2 +y2) without intermediate overflow or underflow.
static double 	IEEEremainder(double f1, double f2)
          Computes the remainder operation on two arguments as prescribed by the IEEE 754 standard.
static double 	log(double a)
          Returns the natural logarithm (base e) of a double value.
static double 	log10(double a)
          Returns the base 10 logarithm of a double value.
static double 	log1p(double x)
          Returns the natural logarithm of the sum of the argument and 1.
static double 	max(double a, double b)
          Returns the greater of two double values.
static float 	max(float a, float b)
          Returns the greater of two float values.
static int 	max(int a, int b)
          Returns the greater of two int values.
static long 	max(long a, long b)
          Returns the greater of two long values.
static double 	min(double a, double b)
          Returns the smaller of two double values.
static float 	min(float a, float b)
          Returns the smaller of two float values.
static int 	min(int a, int b)
          Returns the smaller of two int values.
static long 	min(long a, long b)
          Returns the smaller of two long values.
static double 	pow(double a, double b)
          Returns the value of the first argument raised to the power of the second argument.
static double 	random()
          Returns a double value with a positive sign, greater than or equal to 0.0 and less than 1.0.
static double 	rint(double a)
          Returns the double value that is closest in value to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer.
static long 	round(double a)
          Returns the closest long to the argument.
static int 	round(float a)
          Returns the closest int to the argument.
static double 	signum(double d)
          Returns the signum function of the argument; zero if the argument is zero, 1.0 if the argument is greater than zero, -1.0 if the argument is less than zero.
static float 	signum(float f)
          Returns the signum function of the argument; zero if the argument is zero, 1.0f if the argument is greater than zero, -1.0f if the argument is less than zero.
static double 	sin(double a)
          Returns the trigonometric sine of an angle.
static double 	sinh(double x)
          Returns the hyperbolic sine of a double value.
static double 	sqrt(double a)
          Returns the correctly rounded positive square root of a double value.
static double 	tan(double a)
          Returns the trigonometric tangent of an angle.
static double 	tanh(double x)
          Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a double value.
static double 	toDegrees(double angrad)
          Converts an angle measured in radians to an approximately equivalent angle measured in degrees.
static double 	toRadians(double angdeg)
          Converts an angle measured in degrees to an approximately equivalent angle measured in radians.
static double 	ulp(double d)
          Returns the size of an ulp of the argument.
static float 	ulp(float f)
          Returns the size of an ulp of the argument.
 
Methods inherited from class java.lang.Object
clone, equals, finalize, getClass, hashCode, notify, notifyAll, toString, wait, wait, wait
 

Field Detail
E

public static final double E

    The double value that is closer than any other to e, the base of the natural logarithms.

    See Also:
        Constant Field Values

PI

public static final double PI

    The double value that is closer than any other to pi, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter.

    See Also:
        Constant Field Values

Method Detail
sin

public static double sin(double a)

    Returns the trigonometric sine of an angle. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or an infinity, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - an angle, in radians. 
    Returns:
        the sine of the argument.

cos

public static double cos(double a)

    Returns the trigonometric cosine of an angle. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or an infinity, then the result is NaN.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - an angle, in radians. 
    Returns:
        the cosine of the argument.

tan

public static double tan(double a)

    Returns the trigonometric tangent of an angle. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or an infinity, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - an angle, in radians. 
    Returns:
        the tangent of the argument.

asin

public static double asin(double a)

    Returns the arc sine of an angle, in the range of -pi/2 through pi/2. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or its absolute value is greater than 1, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - the value whose arc sine is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        the arc sine of the argument.

acos

public static double acos(double a)

    Returns the arc cosine of an angle, in the range of 0.0 through pi. Special case:

        * If the argument is NaN or its absolute value is greater than 1, then the result is NaN.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - the value whose arc cosine is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        the arc cosine of the argument.

atan

public static double atan(double a)

    Returns the arc tangent of an angle, in the range of -pi/2 through pi/2. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - the value whose arc tangent is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        the arc tangent of the argument.

toRadians

public static double toRadians(double angdeg)

    Converts an angle measured in degrees to an approximately equivalent angle measured in radians. The conversion from degrees to radians is generally inexact.

    Parameters:
        angdeg - an angle, in degrees 
    Returns:
        the measurement of the angle angdeg in radians.
    Since:
        1.2

toDegrees

public static double toDegrees(double angrad)

    Converts an angle measured in radians to an approximately equivalent angle measured in degrees. The conversion from radians to degrees is generally inexact; users should not expect cos(toRadians(90.0)) to exactly equal 0.0.

    Parameters:
        angrad - an angle, in radians 
    Returns:
        the measurement of the angle angrad in degrees.
    Since:
        1.2

exp

public static double exp(double a)

    Returns Euler's number e raised to the power of a double value. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is negative infinity, then the result is positive zero.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - the exponent to raise e to. 
    Returns:
        the value ea, where e is the base of the natural logarithms.

log

public static double log(double a)

    Returns the natural logarithm (base e) of a double value. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or less than zero, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, then the result is negative infinity.

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - a value 
    Returns:
        the value ln a, the natural logarithm of a.

log10

public static double log10(double a)

    Returns the base 10 logarithm of a double value. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or less than zero, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, then the result is negative infinity.
        * If the argument is equal to 10n for integer n, then the result is n. 

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - a value 
    Returns:
        the base 10 logarithm of a.
    Since:
        1.5

sqrt

public static double sqrt(double a)

    Returns the correctly rounded positive square root of a double value. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or less than zero, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, then the result is the same as the argument.

    Otherwise, the result is the double value closest to the true mathematical square root of the argument value.

    Parameters:
        a - a value. 
    Returns:
        the positive square root of a. If the argument is NaN or less than zero, the result is NaN.

cbrt

public static double cbrt(double a)

    Returns the cube root of a double value. For positive finite x, cbrt(-x) == -cbrt(x); that is, the cube root of a negative value is the negative of the cube root of that value's magnitude. Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is infinite, then the result is an infinity with the same sign as the argument.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument. 

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result.

    Parameters:
        a - a value. 
    Returns:
        the cube root of a.
    Since:
        1.5

IEEEremainder

public static double IEEEremainder(double f1,
                                   double f2)

    Computes the remainder operation on two arguments as prescribed by the IEEE 754 standard. The remainder value is mathematically equal to f1 - f2  n, where n is the mathematical integer closest to the exact mathematical value of the quotient f1/f2, and if two mathematical integers are equally close to f1/f2, then n is the integer that is even. If the remainder is zero, its sign is the same as the sign of the first argument. Special cases:

        * If either argument is NaN, or the first argument is infinite, or the second argument is positive zero or negative zero, then the result is NaN.
        * If the first argument is finite and the second argument is infinite, then the result is the same as the first argument.

    Parameters:
        f1 - the dividend.
        f2 - the divisor. 
    Returns:
        the remainder when f1 is divided by f2.

ceil

public static double ceil(double a)

    Returns the smallest (closest to negative infinity) double value that is greater than or equal to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer. Special cases:

        * If the argument value is already equal to a mathematical integer, then the result is the same as the argument.
        * If the argument is NaN or an infinity or positive zero or negative zero, then the result is the same as the argument.
        * If the argument value is less than zero but greater than -1.0, then the result is negative zero.

    Note that the value of Math.ceil(x) is exactly the value of -Math.floor(-x).

    Parameters:
        a - a value. 
    Returns:
        the smallest (closest to negative infinity) floating-point value that is greater than or equal to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer.

floor

public static double floor(double a)

    Returns the largest (closest to positive infinity) double value that is less than or equal to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer. Special cases:

        * If the argument value is already equal to a mathematical integer, then the result is the same as the argument.
        * If the argument is NaN or an infinity or positive zero or negative zero, then the result is the same as the argument.

    Parameters:
        a - a value. 
    Returns:
        the largest (closest to positive infinity) floating-point value that less than or equal to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer.

rint

public static double rint(double a)

    Returns the double value that is closest in value to the argument and is equal to a mathematical integer. If two double values that are mathematical integers are equally close, the result is the integer value that is even. Special cases:

        * If the argument value is already equal to a mathematical integer, then the result is the same as the argument.
        * If the argument is NaN or an infinity or positive zero or negative zero, then the result is the same as the argument.

    Parameters:
        a - a double value. 
    Returns:
        the closest floating-point value to a that is equal to a mathematical integer.

atan2

public static double atan2(double y,
                           double x)

    Converts rectangular coordinates (x, y) to polar (r, theta). This method computes the phase theta by computing an arc tangent of y/x in the range of -pi to pi. Special cases:

        * If either argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the first argument is positive zero and the second argument is positive, or the first argument is positive and finite and the second argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive zero.
        * If the first argument is negative zero and the second argument is positive, or the first argument is negative and finite and the second argument is positive infinity, then the result is negative zero.
        * If the first argument is positive zero and the second argument is negative, or the first argument is positive and finite and the second argument is negative infinity, then the result is the double value closest to pi.
        * If the first argument is negative zero and the second argument is negative, or the first argument is negative and finite and the second argument is negative infinity, then the result is the double value closest to -pi.
        * If the first argument is positive and the second argument is positive zero or negative zero, or the first argument is positive infinity and the second argument is finite, then the result is the double value closest to pi/2.
        * If the first argument is negative and the second argument is positive zero or negative zero, or the first argument is negative infinity and the second argument is finite, then the result is the double value closest to -pi/2.
        * If both arguments are positive infinity, then the result is the double value closest to pi/4.
        * If the first argument is positive infinity and the second argument is negative infinity, then the result is the double value closest to 3*pi/4.
        * If the first argument is negative infinity and the second argument is positive infinity, then the result is the double value closest to -pi/4.
        * If both arguments are negative infinity, then the result is the double value closest to -3*pi/4.

    The computed result must be within 2 ulps of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        y - the ordinate coordinate
        x - the abscissa coordinate 
    Returns:
        the theta component of the point (r, theta) in polar coordinates that corresponds to the point (x, y) in Cartesian coordinates.

pow

public static double pow(double a,
                         double b)

    Returns the value of the first argument raised to the power of the second argument. Special cases:

        * If the second argument is positive or negative zero, then the result is 1.0.
        * If the second argument is 1.0, then the result is the same as the first argument.
        * If the second argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the first argument is NaN and the second argument is nonzero, then the result is NaN.
        * If
              o the absolute value of the first argument is greater than 1 and the second argument is positive infinity, or
              o the absolute value of the first argument is less than 1 and the second argument is negative infinity, 
          then the result is positive infinity.
        * If
              o the absolute value of the first argument is greater than 1 and the second argument is negative infinity, or
              o the absolute value of the first argument is less than 1 and the second argument is positive infinity, 
          then the result is positive zero.
        * If the absolute value of the first argument equals 1 and the second argument is infinite, then the result is NaN.
        * If
              o the first argument is positive zero and the second argument is greater than zero, or
              o the first argument is positive infinity and the second argument is less than zero, 
          then the result is positive zero.
        * If
              o the first argument is positive zero and the second argument is less than zero, or
              o the first argument is positive infinity and the second argument is greater than zero, 
          then the result is positive infinity.
        * If
              o the first argument is negative zero and the second argument is greater than zero but not a finite odd integer, or
              o the first argument is negative infinity and the second argument is less than zero but not a finite odd integer, 
          then the result is positive zero.
        * If
              o the first argument is negative zero and the second argument is a positive finite odd integer, or
              o the first argument is negative infinity and the second argument is a negative finite odd integer, 
          then the result is negative zero.
        * If
              o the first argument is negative zero and the second argument is less than zero but not a finite odd integer, or
              o the first argument is negative infinity and the second argument is greater than zero but not a finite odd integer, 
          then the result is positive infinity.
        * If
              o the first argument is negative zero and the second argument is a negative finite odd integer, or
              o the first argument is negative infinity and the second argument is a positive finite odd integer, 
          then the result is negative infinity.
        * If the first argument is finite and less than zero
              o if the second argument is a finite even integer, the result is equal to the result of raising the absolute value of the first argument to the power of the second argument
              o if the second argument is a finite odd integer, the result is equal to the negative of the result of raising the absolute value of the first argument to the power of the second argument
              o if the second argument is finite and not an integer, then the result is NaN. 
        * If both arguments are integers, then the result is exactly equal to the mathematical result of raising the first argument to the power of the second argument if that result can in fact be represented exactly as a double value.

    (In the foregoing descriptions, a floating-point value is considered to be an integer if and only if it is finite and a fixed point of the method ceil or, equivalently, a fixed point of the method floor. A value is a fixed point of a one-argument method if and only if the result of applying the method to the value is equal to the value.)

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        a - the base.
        b - the exponent. 
    Returns:
        the value ab.

round

public static int round(float a)

    Returns the closest int to the argument. The result is rounded to an integer by adding 1/2, taking the floor of the result, and casting the result to type int. In other words, the result is equal to the value of the expression:

    (int)Math.floor(a + 0.5f)

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, the result is 0.
        * If the argument is negative infinity or any value less than or equal to the value of Integer.MIN_VALUE, the result is equal to the value of Integer.MIN_VALUE.
        * If the argument is positive infinity or any value greater than or equal to the value of Integer.MAX_VALUE, the result is equal to the value of Integer.MAX_VALUE.

    Parameters:
        a - a floating-point value to be rounded to an integer. 
    Returns:
        the value of the argument rounded to the nearest int value.
    See Also:
        Integer.MAX_VALUE, Integer.MIN_VALUE

round

public static long round(double a)

    Returns the closest long to the argument. The result is rounded to an integer by adding 1/2, taking the floor of the result, and casting the result to type long. In other words, the result is equal to the value of the expression:

    (long)Math.floor(a + 0.5d)

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, the result is 0.
        * If the argument is negative infinity or any value less than or equal to the value of Long.MIN_VALUE, the result is equal to the value of Long.MIN_VALUE.
        * If the argument is positive infinity or any value greater than or equal to the value of Long.MAX_VALUE, the result is equal to the value of Long.MAX_VALUE.

    Parameters:
        a - a floating-point value to be rounded to a long. 
    Returns:
        the value of the argument rounded to the nearest long value.
    See Also:
        Long.MAX_VALUE, Long.MIN_VALUE

random

public static double random()

    Returns a double value with a positive sign, greater than or equal to 0.0 and less than 1.0. Returned values are chosen pseudorandomly with (approximately) uniform distribution from that range.

    When this method is first called, it creates a single new pseudorandom-number generator, exactly as if by the expression

        new java.util.Random

    This new pseudorandom-number generator is used thereafter for all calls to this method and is used nowhere else.

    This method is properly synchronized to allow correct use by more than one thread. However, if many threads need to generate pseudorandom numbers at a great rate, it may reduce contention for each thread to have its own pseudorandom-number generator.

    Returns:
        a pseudorandom double greater than or equal to 0.0 and less than 1.0.
    See Also:
        Random.nextDouble()

abs

public static int abs(int a)

    Returns the absolute value of an int value. If the argument is not negative, the argument is returned. If the argument is negative, the negation of the argument is returned.

    Note that if the argument is equal to the value of Integer.MIN_VALUE, the most negative representable int value, the result is that same value, which is negative.

    Parameters:
        a - the argument whose absolute value is to be determined 
    Returns:
        the absolute value of the argument.
    See Also:
        Integer.MIN_VALUE

abs

public static long abs(long a)

    Returns the absolute value of a long value. If the argument is not negative, the argument is returned. If the argument is negative, the negation of the argument is returned.

    Note that if the argument is equal to the value of Long.MIN_VALUE, the most negative representable long value, the result is that same value, which is negative.

    Parameters:
        a - the argument whose absolute value is to be determined 
    Returns:
        the absolute value of the argument.
    See Also:
        Long.MIN_VALUE

abs

public static float abs(float a)

    Returns the absolute value of a float value. If the argument is not negative, the argument is returned. If the argument is negative, the negation of the argument is returned. Special cases:

        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, the result is positive zero.
        * If the argument is infinite, the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is NaN, the result is NaN.

    In other words, the result is the same as the value of the expression:

    Float.intBitsToFloat(0x7fffffff & Float.floatToIntBits(a))

    Parameters:
        a - the argument whose absolute value is to be determined 
    Returns:
        the absolute value of the argument.

abs

public static double abs(double a)

    Returns the absolute value of a double value. If the argument is not negative, the argument is returned. If the argument is negative, the negation of the argument is returned. Special cases:

        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, the result is positive zero.
        * If the argument is infinite, the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is NaN, the result is NaN.

    In other words, the result is the same as the value of the expression:

    Double.longBitsToDouble((Double.doubleToLongBits(a)<<1)>>>1)

    Parameters:
        a - the argument whose absolute value is to be determined 
    Returns:
        the absolute value of the argument.

max

public static int max(int a,
                      int b)

    Returns the greater of two int values. That is, the result is the argument closer to the value of Integer.MAX_VALUE. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the larger of a and b.
    See Also:
        Long.MAX_VALUE

max

public static long max(long a,
                       long b)

    Returns the greater of two long values. That is, the result is the argument closer to the value of Long.MAX_VALUE. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the larger of a and b.
    See Also:
        Long.MAX_VALUE

max

public static float max(float a,
                        float b)

    Returns the greater of two float values. That is, the result is the argument closer to positive infinity. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value. If either value is NaN, then the result is NaN. Unlike the numerical comparison operators, this method considers negative zero to be strictly smaller than positive zero. If one argument is positive zero and the other negative zero, the result is positive zero.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the larger of a and b.

max

public static double max(double a,
                         double b)

    Returns the greater of two double values. That is, the result is the argument closer to positive infinity. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value. If either value is NaN, then the result is NaN. Unlike the numerical comparison operators, this method considers negative zero to be strictly smaller than positive zero. If one argument is positive zero and the other negative zero, the result is positive zero.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the larger of a and b.

min

public static int min(int a,
                      int b)

    Returns the smaller of two int values. That is, the result the argument closer to the value of Integer.MIN_VALUE. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the smaller of a and b.
    See Also:
        Long.MIN_VALUE

min

public static long min(long a,
                       long b)

    Returns the smaller of two long values. That is, the result is the argument closer to the value of Long.MIN_VALUE. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the smaller of a and b.
    See Also:
        Long.MIN_VALUE

min

public static float min(float a,
                        float b)

    Returns the smaller of two float values. That is, the result is the value closer to negative infinity. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value. If either value is NaN, then the result is NaN. Unlike the numerical comparison operators, this method considers negative zero to be strictly smaller than positive zero. If one argument is positive zero and the other is negative zero, the result is negative zero.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the smaller of a and b.

min

public static double min(double a,
                         double b)

    Returns the smaller of two double values. That is, the result is the value closer to negative infinity. If the arguments have the same value, the result is that same value. If either value is NaN, then the result is NaN. Unlike the numerical comparison operators, this method considers negative zero to be strictly smaller than positive zero. If one argument is positive zero and the other is negative zero, the result is negative zero.

    Parameters:
        a - an argument.
        b - another argument. 
    Returns:
        the smaller of a and b.

ulp

public static double ulp(double d)

    Returns the size of an ulp of the argument. An ulp of a double value is the positive distance between this floating-point value and the double value next larger in magnitude. Note that for non-NaN x, ulp(-x) == ulp(x).

    Special Cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive or negative infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is positive or negative zero, then the result is Double.MIN_VALUE.
        * If the argument is Double.MAX_VALUE, then the result is equal to 2971. 

    Parameters:
        d - the floating-point value whose ulp is to be returned 
    Returns:
        the size of an ulp of the argument
    Since:
        1.5

ulp

public static float ulp(float f)

    Returns the size of an ulp of the argument. An ulp of a float value is the positive distance between this floating-point value and the float value next larger in magnitude. Note that for non-NaN x, ulp(-x) == ulp(x).

    Special Cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive or negative infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is positive or negative zero, then the result is Float.MIN_VALUE.
        * If the argument is Float.MAX_VALUE, then the result is equal to 2104. 

    Parameters:
        f - the floating-point value whose ulp is to be returned 
    Returns:
        the size of an ulp of the argument
    Since:
        1.5

signum

public static double signum(double d)

    Returns the signum function of the argument; zero if the argument is zero, 1.0 if the argument is greater than zero, -1.0 if the argument is less than zero.

    Special Cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, then the result is the same as the argument. 

    Parameters:
        d - the floating-point value whose signum is to be returned 
    Returns:
        the signum function of the argument
    Since:
        1.5

signum

public static float signum(float f)

    Returns the signum function of the argument; zero if the argument is zero, 1.0f if the argument is greater than zero, -1.0f if the argument is less than zero.

    Special Cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive zero or negative zero, then the result is the same as the argument. 

    Parameters:
        f - the floating-point value whose signum is to be returned 
    Returns:
        the signum function of the argument
    Since:
        1.5

sinh

public static double sinh(double x)

    Returns the hyperbolic sine of a double value. The hyperbolic sine of x is defined to be (ex - e-x)/2 where e is Euler's number.

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is infinite, then the result is an infinity with the same sign as the argument.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument. 

    The computed result must be within 2.5 ulps of the exact result.

    Parameters:
        x - The number whose hyperbolic sine is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        The hyperbolic sine of x.
    Since:
        1.5

cosh

public static double cosh(double x)

    Returns the hyperbolic cosine of a double value. The hyperbolic cosine of x is defined to be (ex + e-x)/2 where e is Euler's number.

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is infinite, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is 1.0. 

    The computed result must be within 2.5 ulps of the exact result.

    Parameters:
        x - The number whose hyperbolic cosine is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        The hyperbolic cosine of x.
    Since:
        1.5

tanh

public static double tanh(double x)

    Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a double value. The hyperbolic tangent of x is defined to be (ex - e-x)/(ex + e-x), in other words, sinh(x)/cosh(x). Note that the absolute value of the exact tanh is always less than 1.

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is +1.0.
        * If the argument is negative infinity, then the result is -1.0. 

    The computed result must be within 2.5 ulps of the exact result. The result of tanh for any finite input must have an absolute value less than or equal to 1. Note that once the exact result of tanh is within 1/2 of an ulp of the limit value of 1, correctly signed 1.0 should be returned.

    Parameters:
        x - The number whose hyperbolic tangent is to be returned. 
    Returns:
        The hyperbolic tangent of x.
    Since:
        1.5

hypot

public static double hypot(double x,
                           double y)

    Returns sqrt(x2 +y2) without intermediate overflow or underflow.

    Special cases:

        * If either argument is infinite, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If either argument is NaN and neither argument is infinite, then the result is NaN. 

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. If one parameter is held constant, the results must be semi-monotonic in the other parameter.

    Parameters:
        x - a value
        y - a value 
    Returns:
        sqrt(x2 +y2) without intermediate overflow or underflow
    Since:
        1.5

expm1

public static double expm1(double x)

    Returns ex -1. Note that for values of x near 0, the exact sum of expm1(x) + 1 is much closer to the true result of ex than exp(x).

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN, the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is negative infinity, then the result is -1.0.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument. 

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic. The result of expm1 for any finite input must be greater than or equal to -1.0. Note that once the exact result of ex - 1 is within 1/2 ulp of the limit value -1, -1.0 should be returned.

    Parameters:
        x - the exponent to raise e to in the computation of ex -1. 
    Returns:
        the value ex - 1.

log1p

public static double log1p(double x)

    Returns the natural logarithm of the sum of the argument and 1. Note that for small values x, the result of log1p(x) is much closer to the true result of ln(1 + x) than the floating-point evaluation of log(1.0+x).

    Special cases:

        * If the argument is NaN or less than -1, then the result is NaN.
        * If the argument is positive infinity, then the result is positive infinity.
        * If the argument is negative one, then the result is negative infinity.
        * If the argument is zero, then the result is a zero with the same sign as the argument. 

    The computed result must be within 1 ulp of the exact result. Results must be semi-monotonic.

    Parameters:
        x - a value 
    Returns:
        the value ln(x + 1), the natural log of x + 1

Multilevel Ranking m Large Text
  Collections Using FAIRS
   S-C. Chang, H. Dediu, H. Azzam, M-W. Du
       GTE Laboratories


 Abstraci

2.0 System Overview

A description of a general-purpose multilevel ranking
information retrieval prototype is presented. The methods
used in weighting and ranking the retrieved documents are
discussed. Experiments with the TREC92 collection of
text and queries have been conducted without manual pre-
processing. Initial results have shown the multilevel rank-
ing scheme to be highly competitive in precision and recall
relative to other ranking strategies.


1.0 Introduction

Information retrieval research at GTh Laboratories has led
to the development of a prototype system called FAIRS
(Friendly Adaptable Information Retrieval System).
FAIRS has evolved into a functional and flexible system
currently running on SunOS, HPILJX, Ultrix, AIX, VMS
and PC platforms. It has been used in environments as
diverse as literature searching, library operations, research
and development, customer support, market analysis and
management. FAIRS is being further tested as a retrieval
engine for very large collections of text, such as those pre-
sented by the TREC92 collection and wide-area distrib-
uted collections.

FAIRS is designed to minimize user effort in the prepara-
tion of text, the learning of query syntax while providing a
user-modifiable multilevel ranking scheme1. Experiments
with the TREC92 collections of text and queries have been
conducted with no human intervention in the processing of
either text or queries. The results of experiments against
the collection of Wall Street Journal articles are listed in
Section 3A.


1. PatentPending


                                        329

FAIRS uses pure text as its information base, while
allowing flexible links into non-textual information.
FAIRS extracts information out of an unstructured,
amorphous collection of data, in four main steps:
1. First, it partitions (logically) a raw text file or a col-
   lection of such files into retrievable record units.
   This simple record partitioning is necessary and suf-
   ficient for indexing to begin. The goal is to use
   source information as-is [I].
2. Second, FAIRS automatically constructs an index. A
   feature exists where deletions are permitted from an
   index. Statistics on the collections can also be gener-
   ated at this time. Such statistics are used in normaliz-
   ing the weighting of retrieved documents.
3. The third step involves the user queries. Queries are
   accepted and interpreted in an intelligent and sensi-
   tive manner [1,2]. A flexible approach to the under-
   standing of the query is essential to providing good
   responses.
4. Finally, once the query is processed, the relevant hits
   are retrieved quickly and displayed in an ordered list
   ranked according to a relevance measure. The
   records corresponding to the hits can then be viewed,
   printed or mailed in their entirety on demand.

2.1  Char8cterIstIcs

In FAIRS, both the responses to information requests
and the way relevance is determined can be customized
by the user. FAIRS can provide a tool for decision mak-
ing by presenting to the user all the relevant facts in an
elegant and timely fashion. There are some interesting
and novel features of FAIRS and research issues associ-
ated with each of these strategies. They will be dis-
cussed in sequence.

2.1.1 Using Files As-Is

Raw textual information is broken into records (i.e., the
units that will be subsequently retrieved). Consistent with
the goal of using the information as-is (i.e., eliminating
file conversion), FAIRS does not require the input files to
be in any particular format [1). Any ASCII file can be
indexed and searched. However, if a file does have a logi-
cal field structure that the user wants to use in searching
(e.g., restrict a search to text in the NAME field of
records), then this structure must be described to FAIRS.

If the information files do not have "recordt' or "field"
structures then an implicit method must be used to parti-
tion these files into records. To use the files as-is, FAIRS
allows the user to impose a record structure. Any character
string(s) can be designated as an end-of-record marker(s).
Such a page/record structure has been used successfully
and a number of documents have been quickly trans-
formed into textbases that could be processed by FAIRS.

Alternatively, a fixed line count, such as 66 lines or 78
lines, can be used as an end-of-record marker. Further-
more, each file may be declared as an individual record if
multiple files are present. Records can be further divided
into fields by using any character string(s) as field mark-
ers.

For retrieval, FAIRS requlres the information base being
searched to be partitioned into indexed, retrievable
records. Either the record/field structure in the original
text file can be used or, in the absence of such structure, it
can be imposed. In either event, a description of record/
field format will control how FAIRS breaks the raw text
file into records. Note that a file format description is sep-
arate from the described input file which can be used as-is
(without conversion).

These methods of record definition are the result of practi-
cal experience with text collections generated in typical
business environments. A flexible input text structure or
pre-processor is essential to the effectiveness of a general-
purpose information retrieval system.

2.1.3 Stemming

Words are stemmed at index time and at query parsing
time. The stemming rules used are published by Paice
[4]. The rules are incomplete but are claimed to be satis-
factory. Words shorter than 4 characters are not
stemmed.

Conflation is used as an alternative to the inadequacies
of truncation. Paice's scheme does not return "correct"
roots, but does ensure that members of a family reduce
to the same root, and members of different families
reduce to different roots.

2.1 A Query Formation

FAIRS handles free association queries for information
[1,2]. Free association is the essence of being "user
friendly" in information retrieval, rather than graphical
user interface features such as windows, icons, mice,
and pulldown menus. Free association means that there
is no set of keywords that must be known and used
exactly. Queries do not have to be phrased as Boolean
expressions with ANDs and ORs. Words, phrases, and
even word stems thought to be relevant are listed in a
free association fashion. A FAIRS query has the simple
form:

     ierm1[w1] [,]term2[w2] []...ierm~[w~]


Where term~ can be a single word or a phrase and W~ is a
user-specified weight for that.word. There will be a hit
for each record in the information base that contains at
least one word from the query.

Commas are the only delimiters used to delineate
phrases, so that relative adjacency relation among
search words (i.e., the distance between two words that
appear as a query term such as "scenic view" or "soft-
ware engineering") could be considered automatically.
The weight W~ is used at ranking time but if omitted, it is
set by default to 1.

                                             2.1.5 Previewing Recorda
2.1.2 Stop Lists

FAIRS constructs an index to support the full text retrieval
of records. A user-defined stop list can be used to limit the
words indexed. For the TREC92 experiments the stop
word list consisted of 280 words. It was customized with
the addition of several common embedded SGML strings
and spurious field definitions such as: docno, doc, text,
journal, title, summary, descriptor, author, fileid, file_id,
&bullet, &para, &degrees, etc.


                                        330

The ranking results are shown to the user via several
interactive and selectable preview features. The preview
features show some aspects of the top ranked records.
The aspects include the first (or all) lines containing
query words, coverage, and frequency data or simply
the first few lines of highly ranked records. This is
designed to give users a better feel for how relevant the
retrieved records really are, and thus give him a feel for
how well do the ranking rules work, and how they

should be customized. After examining a preview or the
full text of the highly ranked records, the user can then
revise the query or even change the ranking strategy.

2.1.6 Synonyms

A synonym definition capability (glossary) is also avail-
able within FAIRS. Given a word, FAIRS will retrieve
instances of that word, as well as instances of its syn-
onyms. The option can be invoked to broaden a query.
Users can build their own vocabulary or invoke and mod-
ify the system-wide synonym dictionary. This can be used
to ease the problem of different word usages from differ-
ent people.

A very fast elastic string matching algorithm2 [5] is being
evaluated for inclusion among the query expansion fea-
tures of FAIRS.

2.1.7 Displaying Records

When a request is made, users will always be presented
with the retrieved records in their full-text form. Further-
more, FAIRS provides several ways to associate non-text
information with each record. There are basically two
types of links: implicit and explicit. Implicit links use
source information as-is while explicit links involve spe-
cial fields embedded in the source text. Implicit links are
useful in situations where an implied one4o-one mapping
may be established between records and image files.
Explicit links may be used to express one-to-many rela-
tions between records and other media.

2.1.8 Ranking

Gne of the most interesting aspects of FAIRS is its uncon-
ventional ranking scheme to determine the relative rele-
vance of retrieved records. The ranking scheme is
designed to mimic the human relevancy judgement pro-
cess.

When a person is asked to determine the relative relevance
between two records he is likely to first weigh them using
a set of criteria. If the two records have the same weight
with the set of criteria, a secondary set of criteria may be
used to differentiate them, and so on. The criteria used can
be highly heuristic. The adaptation of this "multilevel
ranking scheme" has been filed with the Patent office in
the United States.

To enable FAIRS to use free association in place of Bool-
ean semantics, a multilevel ranking model [1,2] for full-

2. Patent Pending

331

text information retrieval has been developed and imple-
mented. FAIRS ranks records with respect to a particular
query according to a set of rules. The default rules consist
of six attributes in six levels. The six attributes are the
importance, popularity, frequency, location of a search
word, and record size, and record JD of the record it occurs
in. Each attribute may have either positive, negative or no
impact (neutral) on the relevance judgement of a record.
Such arrangement also guarantees the automatic consider-
ation of coverage (i.e., percentage of different query words
covered by record), which is next to impossible to imple-
ment in a Boolean environment [1,2]. The ranking rules of
FAIRS are always accessible and modifiable by the user.

Descriptions of the attributes chosen for FAIRS follow:

FREQUENCY: The number of occurrences of the key-
word in the record. This attribute may be used to reflect
interest in finding records with more repetitions of a given
term. That is, when set to have a positive impact, the more
instances of a term in a record, the more relevant the
record. Therefore, the record with the higherfrequency of
a term is more likely to be retrieved.

iMPORTANCE: FAIRS provides the searcher the ability to
assign an arbitrary weight (importance) to each query key-
word; thus the user has additional control over how
records are retrieved. For example, specifying brea~ast:4
assigns a weight of 4 to the term breakfast in a query. In
general, keyword weighting allows the searcher to change
how FAIRS sorts records in order to identify the most rele-
vant ones. If a keyword is not weighted, FAIRS supplies a
default weight which is in reverse proportion to its input
position in the query (words that came to mind first
deserve more weight). Therefore, if the searcher chooses
to weight some or all keywords in a query with a range of
weights, records strong in the heavily-weighted keywords
are ranked before others. This attribute is defaulted to have
a positive impact on the relevance judgement.

POPULARITY: This is the number of times a term occurs
in the entire collection, as opposed to the number of times
it appears in the retrieved record. For example, if the word
software appeared, at least once, in 15 records in a collec-
tion, its popularity is considered to be 15. This attribute is
usually used in the negative sense and, by default, FAIRS
assumes that the more popular a term is, the less effective
it is in retrieval.

REC_ID: The record ID is the location of a record in the
collection. It may indicate the age of the record.This is
also useful when the records are arranged according to
their degree of significance (in either increasing or
decreasing order.) This attribute is a good example for

showing there is no perfect ranking rules that work in all
situations. This attribute may have either a positive or neg-
alive impact, depending on user intention. Although there
is no obviously better default setting for this attribute, we
chose positive to be the default, so as to give priority to the
later records as they are likely to be more timely.

REC_SIZE: The total word count of the record. This
attribute may be used to counter (normalize) the size
advantage that a larger record may have over smaller ones
during rank judgement. A larger record may have more
keywords simply because it contains more words. It is
therefore we set its default to have a negative impact on
the relevance judgement. Of course, when records are of
similar size, this attribute will have minimal effect, and
should probably be disabled to improve response time.

WORD_LOC: The location of the first occurrence of the
keyword in the record. A negative setting (the default) of
this attribute assumes that important words appear in the
beginning of a collection, or record. For example, head-
ings or tides which contain keywords describing the con-
tents of a document, usually appear at the beginning. Of
course, this depends solely on how the contents of the
information are organized. This serves as another example
of the context-sensitivity of the ranking process.

The following table shows the default ranking rules:

  Table 1: Ranking Attributes Settings for TREC92

  level  Imp   Pop   Freq   Size  ID    Loc

  1                  ---    ---  ---


  3      ---   neg   -      -    ---    ---
  4      pos   neg   pos    neg   -     -


  6
                                 pos

The first level, having no attribute values, automatically
accounts for coverage if the weight computation is done
using Method 1, as described below in section 2.1.9.

To perform ThEC92 experiments, we changed the ranking
rules as follows: Size was introduced on level one to bal-
ance the effect of the very large records found in the Fed-
eral Register. Consequently, we also had to specify
impacts for the Importance, Popularity and Frequency
attributes on the first level since they are the most impor-
tant criteria for ranking.

The following table shows the TREC92 ranking rules:


                                             332

  Table 2: Ranking Attributes Settings for TREC92

  level  Imp  Pop    Freq   Size     ID   Loc

  1      pos  neg    pos    neg      -    -
  2      pos  neg     -     neg      -
  3      pos  neg    pos    neg      -


  5      ---  ---    ---    ---    pos

2.1.9 Weight Computation
Two methods were available to compute the weight of a
document:

U Method 1

The weight of a retrieved record r at level l is determined
by the following formula:
                   K FA~
           W1[r] =   Ie[i]Ha1,~'['1I

                  =1 L~=1J

Where:

  e[i] = 1 if the ith keyword exists in the record and 0
      otherwise,

     = The value of the attributej9
  A Number of attributes (currently 6,)

  K = Total number of query keywords,

  s1,1 = 1 if the value of attributej is positive,

      0 if the value of attributej is neutral,

      -1 if the value of attributej is negative.

In other words, the weight at a certain level is the sum of
the product of the attributes at that level. This weight com-
putation method automatically calculates coverage since
for each keyword e[i], the product of attributes is never 0.

The value of the attribute is configured by the user either
before running FAIRS, or before delivering the query. To
set the value before running FAIRS, a file must be created
containing the initial values. A default value is set during
system start-up.

* Method2

One disadvantage of method 1 is that it lacks a common
reference scale that evenly distributes the influence of the
attributes on the weight of the document. For example,
consider a textbase with one very large record, record

number 1, and assume the following settings for the vari-
able attributes:

  FREQUENCY = neutral (s[1] =0)

  POPULARITY = neutral (s[2] =0)

  WORD~LOC = neutral (s[3] =0)
  REC_ID = neutral (s[4] =0)
  REC_SIZE = posiave (s[5] = 1)

The contributing factors to the weight of a retrieved docu-
ment are IMPORTANCE and REC_SIZE. Because of its
large size (a[5]  0,) record I will be irrelevantly
retrieved in response to a large percentage of pending que-
nes.

To avoid the above scenario, method 2 uses the following
formula to compute the normalized weight of a retrieved
record r at level 1:
                K ~    A

        W1[r] = ~   e(i]  aills U]I
               ~tl L   JX=1~iCj
Where:

  e[i) = 1 if keyword i exists in the record and 0 other-
      wise,

  ail] = The value of the attributej,

  A = Number of attributes (currently 6,)

  K = Total number of query keywords,

  sill = 1 if the value of attributej is positive,

      0 if the value of attributej is neutral,

      -1 if the value of attributej is negative.

  C = Number of attributes whose value is not 0.

  amill = The maximum value of the attributej.

To avoid the effect of disproportionately large attribute
values, al/Jiamill is set to 1 if a[,] is one of the largest 2%
attribute values. Method 2 has the advantage of accommo-
dating large attribute values by normalizing with respect to
their maximum.

However, this method does not automatically calculate the
coverage since sill contributes as a multiplicand rather
than as an exponent as in Method 1. Therefore, if the
attributes are all neutral (level 1 in Table 1--default
attributes,) the weight would be 0, evan though query
terms would occur in the record r. We are therefore still
looking for ways to improve the method.


                                         333

3.0 Experiments
The TREC92 collection of text and topics was used to
quantify and analyze the performance of FAIRS in the
domain of very large collections. The entire collection
includes 2.3Gb of text from various sources and of various
formats.


3.1   System Configuration
The hardware platform used for indexing and query pro-
cessing was an IBM RS/6000 320 workstation with AIX
3.0 operating system. The core memory (RAM) installed
was 32 Mb. The net disk space available was
4,169,728Kb. The CPU clock rate was 25 MHz, with a
MIPS rating of 27. The disk access time was 9.8 ms on
average.


3.2   Indexing Performance
Our experiments showed that pefformance in indexing is
strictly constrained by I/O wait. We used several tech-
niques to reduce this constraint and optimize throughput.
We scheduled index runs to run simultaneously, thus keep-
ing the CPU busy during I/O wait. We used a kernel which
employs automatic disk caching (providing an order of
magnitude improvement in indexing time.) To further
exploit caching, large amounts of high-speed core memory
should be used (our hinit of 32 Mb is by no means ideal.)

The I/O bottleneck also implies that the very fastest disks
be used. We chose 9.8 ms disks as the fastest available for
the platform for a reasonable price. Using the above con-
figuration, the sustained indexing throughput was on the
order of 10 days (240 hrs.)/Gb. The storage overhead for
index output was 110%. That is, for 1 Gb of text, 2.1 Gb of
space should be available before indexing is initiated. By
this measure, the entire TREC92 collection of 2.3 Gb
would require 4.83 Gb of storage. Since only 4.17 Gb was
available, we participated in category B (Wall Street Jour-
nal only.)


3.3   Query processing
Before submitting the raw topics to FAIRS, they were con-
verted automatically into FAIRS-compatible queries of the
form described in section 2.1.4. The TREC92 topics were
pre-processed by a simple syntactic term token generator.
The pre-processor removed stop words, stemmed and
removed cases from topic terms. It used an ad-hoc term
weighting scheme to assign IMPORTANCE weights to
terms according to their positions in the topic (e.g. terms
occurring in the title section were assigned an arbitrarily
higher importance than those in other sections.)

The importance weights were assigned with a minimum of
attention. As described below, failure analysis had later
shown that great improvements in precision could be made
if pre~processing were better tuned with term expansion,
duplicates removal and a heuristic importance measure.

Mter conversion, queries were submitted to the retrieval
engine through a non-interactive interface. The time for
processing (ranking) was approximately 30 minutes per
query. Again, I/O wait was the dominant factor in running
time. The same system solutions which apply to indexing
can be applied with equal effectiveness to query process-
ing. Modification of some of the internal data Structures
for index storage (concordance list optimization) could
also improve ranking running time.

3.4   Retrieval Performance
FAIRS participated in the following categories: Ad-hoc
Wall Street Journal disk 1 (AWl), Ad-hoc Wall Street
Journal Disk 2 (AW2), Routing, Category B ~B). Rele-
vance judgements are as follows: AWl: 50 topics, AW2:
50, RB: 25; total 125.

Of these judgements, FAIRS' recall rates were ranked as
follows: 77 on or above median, 45 below median, and 3
undetermined (1 tied, 2 with 0 relevant.) 61.6% on or
above median, 36% below, 2.4% undetermined.
       Table 3: Recall Performance Summary


                   %>=    %<
        Category   med    med

       AWl         66.0  32.0

       AW2         46.0  50.0

       RB          84.0  16.0

       Total       61.6  36.0

%rell


 ret


54~

Beside recall, relevancy judgements made available recall/
precision figures across 11 points of recall rates. The aver-
age of the 11 recall/precision figures is called the 11-pt.
average. FAIRS' 11-pt. average rates were ranked as fol-
lows: 79 on or above median, 43 below median, and 3
undetermined. The percentages for Il-Pt. averages are:
63.2% on or above, 34A% below, 2A% undetermined.


                                         334

   Table 4: 11-pt. Average Performance Summary


            Category  med
                              med
           AWl        85.7    31.0

           AW2        45.8    54.2

           RB         84.0    16.0
           Totals     63.2    34A

3A.1 AWl
Ad-hoc WSJ disk I, results were submitted by three sys-
tems. In this category, of all systems' submissions, 4,056
documents were judged relevant, 10,000 were submitted
by FAIRS in response to 50 queries, of which 1,561 were
among the relevant. The average 11 point average (over 50
queries over 11 recall rates for each query) was 0.2083.

The distribution of relevant retrieved (recall) over the 50
topics was: 20 ranked best, 12 on the median, 16 worst, 2
tied. The distribution of 11-Pt. averages over the 50 topics
was: 22 ranked best, 14 on the median and 13 worst, I
tied.
    *Thble 5: AWl RecaII/Predslon Performance

               Best     Med      Worst

     Recall   20(40%) 13 (26%)  16(32%)

     11-Pt.   22(44%) 14(28%)   12(24%)

Total recall placed FAIRS second among 3 participants,
and first in 11-Pt. averages recall/precision.

3A.2 AW2
Ad-hoc WSJ disk 2, results were submitted by two sys-
tems. In this category 2,172 documents were judged rele-
vant, 10,000 were submitted in response to 50 queries, of
which 1,188 were among the relevant. The 11 point aver-
age precision was 0.2216. The distribution of relevant
retrieved (recall) over the 50 topics was: 17 ranked best,
22 worst, 9 tied, 2 unevaluated. Of the tied, the 11-pt.
averages favored FAIRS 6 times, the other system 3 times.

    Table 6: AW2 Recall/Precision Performance


      rn         Best     Worst ~ ~e
       Recall   17(34%)  22(44%)_~ 11

      Lilt.[_22(44%)     26 (52%)_[ 2

For those queries for which there was a tie in recall values,
there are two queries which had 0 records judged relevant.
Of the remaining 9, we considered the 11-pt. average as a
tie-breaker. The result was 6 best, 3 worst. Combining the
recall and 11-pt. averages, for AW2, FAIRS had 23 sub-
missions on or above the median (46%), 25 below (50%)
(4% undetermined).

3A.3 RB
Routing, Category B results were submitted by 7 systems.
For those topics judged, 3,766 documents were considered
relevant, 5,000 were submitted by FAIRS in response to
25 queries. Of those submissions, 1,124 were among the
relevant.

The distribution of relevant retrieved (recall) over the 25
topics was: 2 ranked best, 13 ranked above the median, 6
on the median, 4 below, for a total of 21 on or above the
median, 4 below.

The following graph illustrates the performance index of
the recall rates of FAIRS compared to the group. It shows
FAIRS is above average most of the time. The average
recall P! of FAIRS is 65.8.


           1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 i7 19 21 23 25
                  Recall ~Qiaery


The next graph shows the performance index of the 11-
point average of FAIRS compared to the group. It again
shows FAIRS to be above average most of the time. The
average 11-point-average P1 of FAIRS is 61.8.

       100


        50

    Table 7: RB RecalVprecision Performance

                                                 I

~tion to Median      >          I  =          1

 Recall          ~_15(60%)      6(24%) :4(16%) 1

 11-pt.          ~ 15(60%)      6(24%)  4(16%)]

This is the only group that had enough participants to
make a comparative-performance analysis meaningful. We
compared our 11-point average and recall rates for each
query to the best, the median, and the worst scores of that
query. The performance index (P!) is calculated as fol-
lows:

               ____ (score-median~ score > median
         50+50                  I
 P1 =          bess - median
            score - w:orsrs:s),
                                   score <median


P! has the property that a value of 100 means the best is
achieved, and a 50 means the performance is on the
median, and a 0 means it is the worst.


                                             335

0

 i 3  5 7  9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25

    11-point average IQuery

3.5  Failure Analysis
Based on the feedback from relevance judgements, we are
considering several improvements in the query handling
and ranking methods. These changes include:

1. Expanding of terms in the topics which are abbreviated
   via an abbreviation dictionary. Initial investigation of
   topics which have abbreviations reveals that those
   abbreviations had an appreciably negative impact on
   recall. Topic 17 is a good example, where the term
   "United States" is abbreviated as "U.S.", In a later trial,
   this simple expansion alone significantly improved the
   recall rate for this topic.

2. Using better term weighting based on heuristics. Up to
   50% improvement was observed when term weighting
   was modified more intultively (by hand.)

3. Considering more terms in the topics based on their
   popularity.

4. Using synonyms to expand terms.

5. Optimizing the ranking rules. This Will be important in
   Category A participation. The diversity of the docu-
   ments in Category A Will necessitate the use of opti-
   mum ranking rules which minimize the negative
   effects of extreme attribute values. These ranking rules
   will require more experimentation and analysis.


4.0 Conclusion
Various techniques used by FAIRS to retrieve, weight and
rank documents were discussed. The system was shown to
successfully process the ThEC92 collection and achieve a
high degree of precision and recall in the categories it par-
ticipated, relative to other systems in those categories.

The system was described, the ranking rules and weight-
ing methods were also presented. The application of
FAIRS to the TREC92 collection was analyzed in terms of
system and retrieval performance. The retrieval perfor-
mance was compared to competing systems in the same
categories. It is hoped that further analysis of the results
will provide insight into which features of FAIRS contrib-
ute the most to its effectiveness.


5.0 References
1. Chang, S. C. and A. Chow, "Towards a Friendly
   Adaptable Information Retrieval System," Proceedings
   of R!AO 88, March 1988, pp.172-182.

2. Chang, S. C., "Adaptive Ranking: A Spreadsheet
   Approach." Technical Report TR00171288500, GTE
   Laboratories, Waltham, MA, Dec.1988.

3. Chow, A. and S. C. Chang, "Text Structure Specifica-
   tion: A Study to Eliminate File Conversion," Technical
   Note TN87500.03, GTE Laboratories, Waltharn, MA,
   Dec.1987.
4. Paice, C. D., J~~ormation Retrievat and the Computer,
   MacDonald and Jane's Computer Monographs, Lon-
   don, 1977.
5. Du, M. W. and S. C. Chang, "A Model and Fast Algo-
   rithm for Multiple Errors Spelling Correction," Techni-
   cal Report TR06509895OO, GTE Laboratories,
   Waitham, MA, Sept.1989.


                                        336
					Microsoft Research DRM talk

Cory Doctorow

cory@eff.org

June 17, 2004

This talk was originally given to Microsoft's Research Group
and other interested  parties from within the company at their
Redmond offices on June 17, 2004.

--

Canonical version of this talk (most recent text with corrections, additions, and list
of known alternate versions):

http://craphound.com/msftdrm.txt

--

This talk in other formats:

* Gorgeous printable PDF (Change This):
http://www.changethis.com/4.DRM

* Annotated version on a Wiki (Quinn Norton)
http://www.commonhouse.net/wiki/drm/FrontPage

* Audiobook edition as an MP3 (Jason Kottke)
http://www.kottke.org/04/06/cory-drm-talk

* Beautiful html version (Anil Dash and Matt Haughey):
http://www.dashes.com/anil/stuff/doctorow-drm-ms.html

* "Purple" version for linking to paragraphs (Trevor Smith):
http://trevor.typepad.com/blog/files/msftdrm-purple.html

* Automated machine-generated cutups of this text (Alan Taylor):
http://www.kokogiak.com/thatboxinthecorner/drmcutup.asp

* Printer-friendly stylesheet (Pat Berry):
http://www.patandkat.com/pat/weblog/mirror/cory-drm/doctorow-drm-ms.html

* Pig-latin version (Scotto):
http://www.rockon.net/~scotto/dRMayAlktay.txt

* DRM-free audiobook version from Telltale Weekly:
http://www.telltaleweekly.org/audiobooks/2004/12/microsoft_resea_1.php

* DRM-free audiobook version from Fictionwise:
http://www.fictionwise.com/ebooks/eBook29740.htm

--

This talk in other languages:

* Danish translation (Kim Pedersen):
http://www.craphound.com/msftdrmdansk.txt

* French "quick and dirty" translation ("Botoxsmile"):
http://www.craphound.com/msftdrm_fr.txt

* French translation (Stephane Coillet-Matillon, based on "Botoxsmile's," merged with Matt Haughey's html layout):
http://wanderer.free.fr/msftdrm_fr.html

* Finnish translation (Herkko Hietanen and EF Finland):
http://hietanen.typepad.com/copyfraud/

* German translation (Sven Flesch):
http://www.craphound.com//DRM_talk_german.pdf

* Alternate German translation (Lars Trebing):
http://www.ltrebing.de/misc/doctorow-drm/

* Hebrew translation (Ran Y. Hartstein, trans.il)
http://www.trans.co.il/msftdrm_he.html

* Hungarian translation (Karoly Negyesi):
http://www.hwsw.hu/oldal.php3?cikkid=934&oldal=1

* Italian translation on a Wiki (Luca Lizzeri):
http://www.wikilab.net/banditi/tiki-index.php?page=MicrosoftDrmTalk

* Italian translation (Domenico Della Side):
http://www.linux.it/GNU/opinioni/msftdrm.it.shtml

* Japanese translation project on a Wiki (Matt from M@blog):
http://www.audiolicious.com/cgi-bin/quanza/twiki/bin/view.cgi/TWiki/DoctorowDRMJTranslate

* Norwegian translation (Espen Andersen):
http://www.espen.com/papers/doctorow-msft.html

* Portuguese-Brazilian translation (Borje Karlsson):
http://www.axia.com.br/tellarin/msftdrm.pt-br.html

* Portuguese translation (Rui Soares, rui.msoares@gmail.com):
http://www.freewebs.com/rumagoso/msftdrm-pt-Portugal.txt

* Spanish translation on a wiki (Hermann Kaser):
http://www.theragingche.com/wiki/index.php/Charla_sobre_DRM_a_Microsoft_Research

* Swedish translation (Ulf Benjaminsson):
http://www.emanon.nu/share/Cory_Doctorow_DRM_talk_swe.html

--

This text is dedicated to the public domain, using a Creative
Commons public domain dedication:

> Copyright-Only Dedication (based on United States law)
> 
> The person or persons who have associated their work with this
> document (the "Dedicator") hereby dedicate the entire copyright
> in the work of authorship identified below (the "Work") to the
> public domain.
> 
> Dedicator makes this dedication for the benefit of the public at
> large and to the detriment of Dedicator's heirs and successors.
> Dedicator intends this dedication to be an overt act of
> relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights
> under copyright law, whether vested or contingent, in the Work.
> Dedicator understands that such relinquishment of all rights
> includes the relinquishment of all rights to enforce (by lawsuit
> or otherwise) those copyrights in the Work.
> 
> Dedicator recognizes that, once placed in the public domain, the
> Work may be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, used,
> modified, built upon, or otherwise exploited by anyone for any
> purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and in any way, including
> by methods that have not yet been invented or conceived.

--

Greetings fellow pirates! Arrrrr!

I'm here today to talk to you about copyright, technology and
DRM, I work for the Electronic Frontier Foundation on copyright
stuff (mostly), and I live in London. I'm not a lawyer -- I'm a
kind of mouthpiece/activist type, though occasionally they shave
me and stuff me into my Bar Mitzvah suit and send me to a
standards body or the UN to stir up trouble. I spend about three
weeks a month on the road doing completely weird stuff like going
to Microsoft to talk about DRM.

I lead a double life: I'm also a science fiction writer. That
means I've got a dog in this fight, because I've been dreaming of
making my living from writing since I was 12 years old.
Admittedly, my IP-based biz isn't as big as yours, but I
guarantee you that it's every bit as important to me as yours is
to you.

Here's what I'm here to convince you of:

1. That DRM systems don't work

2. That DRM systems are bad for society

3. That DRM systems are bad for business

4. That DRM systems are bad for artists

5. That DRM is a bad business-move for MSFT

It's a big brief, this talk. Microsoft has sunk a lot of capital
into DRM systems, and spent a lot of time sending folks like
Martha and Brian and Peter around to various smoke-filled rooms
to make sure that Microsoft DRM finds a hospitable home in the
future world. Companies like Microsoft steer like old Buicks, and
this issue has a lot of forward momentum that will be hard to
soak up without driving the engine block back into the driver's
compartment. At best I think that Microsoft might convert some of
that momentum on DRM into angular momentum, and in so doing, save
all our asses.

Let's dive into it.

--

1. DRM systems don't work

This bit breaks down into two parts:

1. A quick refresher course in crypto theory

2. Applying that to DRM

Cryptography -- secret writing -- is the practice of keeping
secrets. It involves three parties: a sender, a receiver and an
attacker (actually, there can be more attackers, senders and
recipients, but let's keep this simple). We usually call these
people Alice, Bob and Carol.

Let's say we're in the days of the Caesar, the Gallic
War. You need to send messages back and forth to your generals,
and you'd prefer that the enemy doesn't get hold of them. You can
rely on the idea that anyone who intercepts your message is
probably illiterate, but that's a tough bet to stake your empire
on. You can put your messages into the hands of reliable
messengers who'll chew them up and swallow them if captured --
but that doesn't help you if Brad Pitt and his men in skirts
skewer him with an arrow before he knows what's hit him.

So you encipher your message with something like ROT-13, where
every character is rotated halfway through the alphabet. They
used to do this with non-worksafe material on Usenet, back when
anyone on Usenet cared about work-safe-ness -- A would become N,
B is O, C is P, and so forth. To decipher, you just add 13 more,
so N goes to A, O to B yadda yadda.

Well, this is pretty lame: as soon as anyone figures out your
algorithm, your secret is g0nez0red.

So if you're Caesar, you spend a lot of time worrying about
keeping the existence of your messengers and their payloads
secret. Get that? You're Augustus and you need to send a message
to Brad without Caceous (a word I'm reliably informed means
"cheese-like, or pertaining to cheese") getting his hands on it.
You give the message to Diatomaceous, the fleetest runner in the
empire, and you encipher it with ROT-13 and send him out of the
garrison in the pitchest hour of the night, making sure no one
knows that you've sent it out. Caceous has spies everywhere, in
the garrison and staked out on the road, and if one of them puts
an arrow through Diatomaceous, they'll have their hands on the
message, and then if they figure out the cipher, you're b0rked.
So the existence of the message is a secret. The cipher is a
secret. The ciphertext is a secret. That's a lot of secrets, and
the more secrets you've got, the less secure you are, especially
if any of those secrets are shared. Shared secrets aren't really
all that secret any longer.

Time passes, stuff happens, and then Tesla invents the radio and
Marconi takes credit for it. This is both good news and bad news
for crypto: on the one hand, your messages can get to anywhere
with a receiver and an antenna, which is great for the brave
fifth columnists working behind the enemy lines. On the other
hand, anyone with an antenna can listen in on the message, which
means that it's no longer practical to keep the existence of the
message a secret. Any time Adolf sends a message to Berlin, he
can assume Churchill overhears it.

Which is OK, because now we have computers -- big, bulky
primitive mechanical computers, but computers still. Computers
are machines for rearranging numbers, and so scientists on both
sides engage in a fiendish competition to invent the most
cleverest method they can for rearranging numerically represented
text so that the other side can't unscramble it. The existence of
the message isn't a secret anymore, but the cipher is.

But this is still too many secrets. If Bobby intercepts one of
Adolf's Enigma machines, he can give Churchill all kinds of
intelligence. I mean, this was good news for Churchill and us,
but bad news for Adolf. And at the end of the day, it's bad news
for anyone who wants to keep a secret.

Enter keys: a cipher that uses a key is still more secure. Even
if the cipher is disclosed, even if the ciphertext is
intercepted, without the key (or a break), the message is secret.
Post-war, this is doubly important as we begin to realize what I
think of as Schneier's Law: "any person can invent a security
system so clever that she or he can't think of how to break it."
This means that the only experimental methodology for discovering
if you've made mistakes in your cipher is to tell all the smart
people you can about it and ask them to think of ways to break
it. Without this critical step, you'll eventually end up living
in a fool's paradise, where your attacker has broken your cipher
ages ago and is quietly decrypting all her intercepts of your
messages, snickering at you.

Best of all, there's only one secret: the key. And with dual-key
crypto it becomes a lot easier for Alice and Bob to keep their
keys secret from Carol, even if they've never met. So long as
Alice and Bob can keep their keys secret, they can assume that
Carol won't gain access to their cleartext messages, even though
she has access to the cipher and the ciphertext. Conveniently
enough, the keys are the shortest and simplest of the secrets,
too: hence even easier to keep away from Carol. Hooray for Bob
and Alice.

Now, let's apply this to DRM.

In DRM, the attacker is *also the recipient*. It's not Alice and
Bob and Carol, it's just Alice and Bob. Alice sells Bob a DVD.
She sells Bob a DVD player. The DVD has a movie on it -- say,
Pirates of the Caribbean -- and it's enciphered with an algorithm
called CSS -- Content Scrambling System. The DVD player has a CSS
un-scrambler.

Now, let's take stock of what's a secret here: the cipher is
well-known. The ciphertext is most assuredly in enemy hands, arrr.
So what? As long as the key is secret from the attacker, we're
golden.

But there's the rub. Alice wants Bob to buy Pirates of the
Caribbean from her. Bob will only buy Pirates of the Caribbean if
he can descramble the CSS-encrypted VOB -- video object -- on his
DVD player. Otherwise, the disc is only useful to Bob as a
drinks-coaster. So Alice has to provide Bob -- the attacker --
with the key, the cipher and the ciphertext.

Hilarity ensues.

DRM systems are usually broken in minutes, sometimes days. Rarely,
months. It's not because the people who think them up are stupid.
It's not because the people who break them are smart. It's not
because there's a flaw in the algorithms. At the end of the day,
all DRM systems share a common vulnerability: they provide their
attackers with ciphertext, the cipher and the key. At this point,
the secret isn't a secret anymore.

--

2. DRM systems are bad for society

Raise your hand if you're thinking something like, "But DRM
doesn't have to be proof against smart attackers, only average
individuals! It's like a speedbump!"

Put your hand down.

This is a fallacy for two reasons: one technical, and one social.
They're both bad for society, though.

Here's the technical reason: I don't need to be a cracker to
break your DRM. I only need to know how to search Google, or
Kazaa, or any of the other general-purpose search tools for the
cleartext that someone smarter than me has extracted.

Raise your hand if you're thinking something like, "But NGSCB can
solve this problem: we'll lock the secrets up on the logic board
and goop it all up with epoxy."

Put your hand down.

Raise your hand if you're a co-author of the Darknet paper.

Everyone in the first group, meet the co-authors of the Darknet
paper. This is a paper that says, among other things, that DRM
will fail for this very reason. Put your hands down, guys.

Here's the social reason that DRM fails: keeping an honest user
honest is like keeping a tall user tall. DRM vendors tell us that
their technology is meant to be proof against average users, not
organized criminal gangs like the Ukranian pirates who stamp out
millions of high-quality counterfeits. It's not meant to be proof
against sophisticated college kids. It's not meant to be proof
against anyone who knows how to edit her registry, or hold down
the shift key at the right moment, or use a search engine. At the
end of the day, the user DRM is meant to defend against is the
most unsophisticated and least capable among us.

Here's a true story about a user I know who was stopped by DRM.
She's smart, college educated, and knows nothing about
electronics. She has three kids. She has a DVD in the living room
and an old VHS deck in the kids' playroom. One day, she brought
home the Toy Story DVD for the kids. That's a substantial
investment, and given the generally jam-smeared character of
everything the kids get their paws on, she decided to tape the
DVD off to VHS and give that to the kids -- that way she could
make a fresh VHS copy when the first one went south. She cabled
her DVD into her VHS and pressed play on the DVD and record on
the VCR and waited.

Before I go farther, I want us all to stop a moment and marvel at
this. Here is someone who is practically technophobic, but who
was able to construct a mental model of sufficient accuracy that
she figured out that she could connect her cables in the right
order and dub her digital disc off to analog tape. I imagine that
everyone in this room is the front-line tech support for someone
in her or his family: wouldn't it be great if all our non-geek
friends and relatives were this clever and imaginative?

I also want to point out that this is the proverbial honest user.
She's not making a copy for the next door neighbors. She's not
making a copy and selling it on a blanket on Canal Street. She's
not ripping it to her hard-drive, DivX encoding it and putting it
in her Kazaa sharepoint. She's doing something *honest* -- moving
it from one format to another. She's home taping.

Except she fails. There's a DRM system called Macrovision
embedded -- by law -- in every VHS that messes with the vertical 
blanking interval in the signal and causes any tape made in this 
fashion to fail. Macrovision can be defeated for about $10 with a 
gadget readily available on eBay. But our infringer doesn't know 
that. She's "honest." Technically unsophisticated. Not stupid, 
mind you -- just naive.

The Darknet paper addresses this possibility: it even predicts
what this person will do in the long run: she'll find out about
Kazaa and the next time she wants to get a movie for the kids,
she'll download it from the net and burn it for them.

In order to delay that day for as long as possible, our lawmakers
and big rightsholder interests have come up with a disastrous
policy called anticircumvention.

Here's how anticircumvention works: if you put a lock -- an
access control -- around a copyrighted work, it is illegal to
break that lock. It's illegal to make a tool that breaks that
lock. It's illegal to tell someone how to make that tool. One 
court even held it illegal to tell someone where she can find 
out how to make that tool.

Remember Schneier's Law? Anyone can come up with a security
system so clever that he can't see its flaws. The only way to
find the flaws in security is to disclose the system's workings
and invite public feedback. But now we live in a world where any
cipher used to fence off a copyrighted work is off-limits to that
kind of feedback. That's something that a Princeton engineering
prof named Ed Felten and his team discovered when he submitted a
paper to an academic conference on the failings in the Secure
Digital Music Initiative, a watermarking scheme proposed by the
recording industry. The RIAA responded by threatening to sue his
ass if he tried it. We fought them because Ed is the kind of
client that impact litigators love: unimpeachable and clean-cut
and the RIAA folded. Lucky Ed. Maybe the next guy isn't so lucky.

Matter of fact, the next guy wasn't. Dmitry Sklyarov is a Russian
programmer who gave a talk at a hacker con in Vegas on the
failings in Adobe's e-book locks. The FBI threw him in the slam
for 30 days. He copped a plea, went home to Russia, and the
Russian equivalent of the State Department issued a blanket
warning to its researchers to stay away from American
conferences, since we'd apparently turned into the kind of
country where certain equations are illegal.

Anticircumvention is a powerful tool for people who want to
exclude competitors. If you claim that your car engine firmware
is a "copyrighted work," you can sue anyone who makes a tool for
interfacing with it. That's not just bad news for mechanics --
think of the hotrodders who want to chip their cars to tweak the
performance settings. We have companies like Lexmark claiming
that their printer cartridges contain copyrighted works --
software that trips an "I am empty" flag when the toner runs out,
and have sued a competitor who made a remanufactured cartridge
that reset the flag. Even garage-door opener companies have
gotten in on the act, claiming that their receivers' firmware are
copyrighted works. Copyrighted cars, print carts and garage-door
openers: what's next, copyrighted light-fixtures?

Even in the context of legitimate -- excuse me, "traditional" --
copyrighted works like movies on DVDs, anticircumvention is bad
news. Copyright is a delicate balance. It gives creators and
their assignees some rights, but it also reserves some rights to
the public. For example, an author has no right to prohibit
anyone from transcoding his books into assistive formats for the
blind. More importantly, though, a creator has a very limited say
over what you can do once you lawfully acquire her works. If I
buy your book, your painting, or your DVD, it belongs to me. It's
my property. Not my "intellectual property" -- a whacky kind of
pseudo-property that's swiss-cheesed with exceptions, easements
and limitations -- but real, no-fooling, actual tangible
*property* -- the kind of thing that courts have been managing
through property law for centuries.

But anticirumvention lets rightsholders invent new and exciting
copyrights for themselves -- to write private laws without
accountability or deliberation -- that expropriate your interest
in your physical property to their favor. Region-coded DVDs are
an example of this: there's no copyright here or in anywhere I
know of that says that an author should be able to control where
you enjoy her creative works, once you've paid for them. I can
buy a book and throw it in my bag and take it anywhere from
Toronto to Timbuktu, and read it wherever I am: I can even buy
books in America and bring them to the UK, where the author may
have an exclusive distribution deal with a local publisher who
sells them for double the US shelf-price. When I'm done with it,
I can sell it on or give it away in the UK. Copyright lawyers
call this "First Sale," but it may be simpler to think of it as
"Capitalism."

The keys to decrypt a DVD are controlled by an org called
DVD-CCA, and they have a bunch of licensing requirements for
anyone who gets a key from them. Among these is something called
region-coding: if you buy a DVD in France, it'll have a flag set
that says, "I am a European DVD." Bring that DVD to America and
your DVD player will compare the flag to its list of permitted
regions, and if they don't match, it will tell you that it's not
allowed to play your disc.

Remember: there is no copyright that says that an author gets to
do this. When we wrote the copyright statutes and granted authors
the right to control display, performance, duplication,
derivative works, and so forth, we didn't leave out "geography"
by accident. That was on-purpose.

So when your French DVD won't play in America, that's not because
it'd be illegal to do so: it's because the studios have invented
a business-model and then invented a copyright law to prop it up.
The DVD is your property and so is the DVD player, but if you
break the region-coding on your disc, you're going to run afoul
of anticircumvention.

That's what happened to Jon Johansen, a Norweigan teenager who
wanted to watch French DVDs on his Norweigan DVD player. He and
some pals wrote some code to break the CSS so that he could do
so. He's a wanted man here in America; in Norway the studios put
the local fuzz up to bringing him up on charges of *unlawfully
trespassing upon a computer system.* When his defense asked,
"Which computer has Jon trespassed upon?" the answer was: "His
own."

His no-fooling, real and physical property has been expropriated
by the weird, notional, metaphorical intellectual property on his
DVD: DRM only works if your record player becomes the property of
whomever's records you're playing.

--

3. DRM systems are bad for biz

This is the worst of all the ideas embodied by DRM: that people
who make record-players should be able to spec whose records you
can listen to, and that people who make records should have a
veto over the design of record-players.

We've never had this principle: in fact, we've always had just
the reverse. Think about all the things that can be plugged into
a parallel or serial interface, which were never envisioned by
their inventors. Our strong economy and rapid innovation are
byproducts of the ability of anyone to make anything that plugs
into anything else: from the Flo-bee electric razor that snaps
onto the end of your vacuum-hose to the octopus spilling out of
your car's dashboard lighter socket, standard interfaces that
anyone can build for are what makes billionaires out of nerds.

The courts affirm this again and again. It used to be illegal to
plug anything that didn't come from AT&T into your phone-jack.
They claimed that this was for the safety of the network, but
really it was about propping up this little penny-ante racket
that AT&T had in charging you a rental fee for your phone until
you'd paid for it a thousand times over.

When that ban was struck down, it created the market for
third-party phone equipment, from talking novelty phones to
answering machines to cordless handsets to headsets -- billions
of dollars of economic activity that had been supressed by the
closed interface. Note that AT&T was one of the big beneficiaries
of this: they *also* got into the business of making phone-kit.

DRM is the software equivalent of these closed hardware
interfaces. Robert Scoble is a Softie who has an excellent blog,
where he wrote an essay about the best way to protect your
investment in the digital music you buy. Should you buy Apple
iTunes music, or Microsoft DRM music? Scoble argued that
Microsoft's music was a sounder investment, because Microsoft
would have more downstream licensees for its proprietary format
and therefore you'd have a richer ecosystem of devices to choose
from when you were shopping for gizmos to play your virtual
records on.

What a weird idea: that we should evaluate our record-purchases
on the basis of which recording company will allow the greatest
diversity of record-players to play its discs! That's like
telling someone to buy the Betamax instead of the Edison
Kinetoscope because Thomas Edison is a crank about licensing his
patents; all the while ignoring the world's relentless march to
the more open VHS format.

It's a bad business. DVD is a format where the guy who makes the
records gets to design the record players. Ask yourself: how much
innovation has there been over the past decade of DVD players?
They've gotten cheaper and smaller, but where are the weird and
amazing new markets for DVD that were opened up by the VCR?
There's a company that's manufacturing the world's first
HDD-based DVD jukebox, a thing that holds 100 movies, and they're
charging *$27,000* for this thing. We're talking about a few thousand
dollars' worth of components -- all that other cost is the cost of
anticompetition.

--

4. DRM systems are bad for artists

But what of the artist? The hardworking filmmaker, the
ink-stained scribbler, the heroin-cured leathery rock-star? We
poor slobs of the creative class are everyone's favorite
poster-children here: the RIAA and MPAA hold us up and say,
"Won't someone please think of the children?" File-sharers say,
"Yeah, we're thinking about the artists, but the labels are The
Man, who cares what happens to you?"

To understand what DRM does to artists, you need to understand
how copyright and technology interact. Copyright is inherently
technological, since the things it addresses -- copying,
transmitting, and so on -- are inherently technological.

The piano roll was the first system for cheaply copying music. It
was invented at a time when the dominant form of entertainment in
America was getting a talented pianist to come into your living
room and pound out some tunes while you sang along. The music
industry consisted mostly of sheet-music publishers.

The player piano was a digital recording and playback system.
Piano-roll companies bought sheet music and ripped the notes
printed on it into 0s and 1s on a long roll of computer tape,
which they sold by the thousands -- the hundreds of thousands --
the millions. They did this without a penny's compensation to the
publishers. They were digital music pirates. Arrrr!

Predictably, the composers and music publishers went nutso. Sousa
showed up in Congress to say that:
	
	These talking machines are going to ruin the
	artistic development of music in this
	country. When I was a boy...in front of every
	house in the summer evenings, you would find
	young people together singing the songs of
	the day or old songs. Today you hear these
	infernal machines going night and day. We
	will not have a vocal chord left. The vocal
	chord will be eliminated by a process of
	evolution, as was the tail of man when he
	came from the ape.

The publishers asked Congress to ban the piano roll and to create
a law that said that any new system for reproducing music should
be subject to a veto from their industry association. Lucky for
us, Congress realized what side of their bread had butter on it
and decided not to criminalize the dominant form of entertainment
in America.

But there was the problem of paying artists. The Constitution
sets out the purpose of American copyright: to promote the useful
arts and sciences. The composers had a credible story that they'd
do less composing if they weren't paid for it, so Congress needed
a fix. Here's what they came up with: anyone who paid a music
publisher two cents would have the right to make one piano roll
of any song that publisher published. The publisher couldn't say
no, and no one had to hire a lawyer at $200 an hour to argue
about whether the payment should be two cents or a nickel.

This compulsory license is still in place today: when Joe Cocker
sings "With a Little Help from My Friends," he pays a fixed fee
to the Beatles' publisher and away he goes -- even if Ringo hates
the idea. If you ever wondered how Sid Vicious talked Anka into
letting him get a crack at "My Way," well, now you know.

That compulsory license created a world where a thousand times
more money was made by a thousand times more creators who made a
thousand times more music that reached a thousand times more
people.

This story repeats itself throughout the technological century,
every ten or fifteen years. Radio was enabled by a voluntary
blanket license -- the music companies got together and asked for
a consent decree so that they could offer all their music
for a flat fee. Cable TV took a compulsory: the only way cable
operators could get their hands on broadcasts was to pirate them
and shove them down the wire, and Congress saw fit to legalize
this practice rather than screw around with their constituents'
TVs.

Sometimes, the courts and Congress decided to simply take away a
copyright -- that's what happened with the VCR. When Sony brought
out the VCR in 1976, the studios had already decided what the
experience of watching a movie in your living room would look
like: they'd licensed out their programming for use on a machine
called a Discovision, which played big LP-sized discs that
were read-only. Proto-DRM.

The copyright scholars of the day didn't give the VCR very good
odds. Sony argued that their box allowed for a fair use, which is
defined as a use that a court rules is a defense against
infringement based on four factors: whether the use transforms
the work into something new, like a collage; whether it uses all
or some of the work; whether the work is artistic or mainly
factual; and whether the use undercuts the creator's
business-model.

The Betamax failed on all four fronts: when you time-shifted or
duplicated a Hollywood movie off the air, you made a
non-transformative use of 100 percent of a creative work in a way
that directly undercut the Discovision licensing stream.

Jack Valenti, the mouthpiece for the motion-picture industry,
told Congress in 1982 that the VCR was to the American film
industry "as the Boston Strangler is to a woman home alone."

But the Supreme Court ruled against Hollywood in 1984, when it
determined that any device capable of a substantial
non-infringing use was legal. In other words, "We don't buy this
Boston Strangler business: if your business model can't survive
the emergence of this general-purpose tool, it's time to get
another business-model or go broke."

Hollywood found another business model, as the broadcasters had,
as the Vaudeville artists had, as the music publishers had, and
they made more art that paid more artists and reached a wider
audience.

There's one thing that every new art business-model had in
common: it embraced the medium it lived in.

This is the overweening characteristic of every single successful
new medium: it is true to itself. The Luther Bible didn't
succeed on the axes that made a hand-copied monk Bible valuable:
they were ugly, they weren't in Church Latin, they weren't read
aloud by someone who could interpret it for his lay audience,
they didn't represent years of devoted-with-a-capital-D labor by
someone who had given his life over to God. The thing that made
the Luther Bible a success was its scalability: it was more
popular because it was more proliferate: all success factors for
a new medium pale beside its profligacy. The most successful
organisms on earth are those that reproduce the most: bugs and
bacteria, nematodes and virii. Reproduction is the best of all
survival strategies.

Piano rolls didn't sound as good as the music of a skilled
pianist: but they *scaled better*. Radio lacked the social
elements of live performance, but more people could build a
crystal set and get it aimed correctly than could pack into even
the largest Vaudeville house. MP3s don't come with liner notes,
they aren't sold to you by a hipper-than-thou record store clerk
who can help you make your choice, bad rips and truncated files
abound: I once downloaded a twelve-second copy of "Hey Jude" from
the original Napster. Yet MP3 is outcompeting the CD. I don't
know what to do with CDs anymore: I get them, and they're like
the especially nice garment bag they give you at the fancy suit
shop: it's nice and you feel like a goof for throwing it out, but
Christ, how many of these things can you usefully own? I can put
ten thousand songs on my laptop, but a comparable pile of discs,
with liner notes and so forth -- that's a liability: it's a piece
of my monthly storage-locker costs.

Here are the two most important things to know about computers
and the Internet:

1. A computer is a machine for rearranging bits

2. The Internet is a machine for moving bits from one place to
another very cheaply and quickly

Any new medium that takes hold on the Internet and with computers
will embrace these two facts, not regret them. A newspaper press
is a machine for spitting out cheap and smeary newsprint at
speed: if you try to make it output fine art lithos, you'll get
junk. If you try to make it output newspapers, you'll get the
basis for a free society.

And so it is with the Internet. At the heyday of Napster, record
execs used to show up at conferences and tell everyone that
Napster was doomed because no one wanted lossily compressed MP3s
with no liner notes and truncated files and misspelled metadata.

Today we hear ebook publishers tell each other and anyone who'll
listen that the barrier to ebooks is screen resolution. It's
bollocks, and so is the whole sermonette about how nice a book
looks on your bookcase and how nice it smells and how easy it is
to slip into the tub. These are obvious and untrue things, like
the idea that radio will catch on once they figure out how to
sell you hotdogs during the intermission, or that movies will
really hit their stride when we can figure out how to bring the
actors out for an encore when the film's run out. Or that what
the Protestant Reformation really needs is Luther Bibles with
facsimile illumination in the margin and a rent-a-priest to read
aloud from your personal Word of God.

New media don't succeed because they're like the old media, only
better: they succeed because they're worse than the old media at
the stuff the old media is good at, and better at the stuff the
old media are bad at. Books are good at being paperwhite,
high-resolution, low-infrastructure, cheap and disposable. Ebooks
are good at being everywhere in the world at the same time for
free in a form that is so malleable that you can just pastebomb
it into your IM session or turn it into a page-a-day mailing
list.

The only really successful epublishing -- I mean, hundreds of
thousands, millions of copies distributed and read -- is the
bookwarez scene, where scanned-and-OCR'd books are distributed on
the darknet. The only legit publishers with any success at
epublishing are the ones whose books cross the Internet without
technological fetter: publishers like Baen Books and my own, Tor,
who are making some or all of their catalogs available in ASCII
and HTML and PDF.

The hardware-dependent ebooks, the DRM use-and-copy-restricted
ebooks, they're cratering. Sales measured in the tens, sometimes
the hundreds. Science fiction is a niche business, but when
you're selling copies by the ten, that's not even a business,
it's a hobby.

Every one of you has been riding a curve where you read more and
more words off of more and more screens every day through most of
your professional careers. It's zero-sum: you've also been
reading fewer words off of fewer pages as time went by: the
dinosauric executive who prints his email and dictates a reply to
his secretary is info-roadkill.

Today, at this very second, people read words off of screens for
every hour that they can find. Your kids stare at their Game Boys
until their eyes fall out. Euroteens ring doorbells with their
hypertrophied, SMS-twitching thumbs instead of their index
fingers.

Paper books are the packaging that books come in. Cheap
printer-binderies like the Internet Bookmobile that can produce a
full bleed, four color, glossy cover, printed spine,
perfect-bound book in ten minutes for a dollar are the future of
paper books: when you need an instance of a paper book, you
generate one, or part of one, and pitch it out when you're done.
I landed at SEA-TAC on Monday and burned a couple CDs from my
music collection to listen to in the rental car. When I drop the
car off, I'll leave them behind. Who needs 'em?

Whenever a new technology has disrupted copyright, we've changed
copyright. Copyright isn't an ethical proposition, it's a
utilitarian one. There's nothing *moral* about paying a composer
tuppence for the piano-roll rights, there's nothing *immoral*
about not paying Hollywood for the right to videotape a movie off
your TV. They're just the best way of balancing out so that
people's physical property rights in their VCRs and phonographs
are respected and so that creators get enough of a dangling
carrot to go on making shows and music and books and paintings.

Technology that disrupts copyright does so because it simplifies
and cheapens creation, reproduction and distribution. The
existing copyright businesses exploit inefficiencies in the old
production, reproduction and distribution system, and they'll be
weakened by the new technology. But new technology always gives
us more art with a wider reach: that's what tech is *for*.

Tech gives us bigger pies that more artists can get a bite out
of. That's been tacitly acknowledged at every stage of the
copyfight since the piano roll. When copyright and technology
collide, it's copyright that changes.

Which means that today's copyright -- the thing that DRM
nominally props up -- didn't come down off the mountain on two
stone tablets. It was created in living memory to accommodate the
technical reality created by the inventors of the previous
generation. To abandon invention now robs tomorrow's artists of
the new businesses and new reach and new audiences that the
Internet and the PC can give them.

--

5. DRM is a bad business-move for MSFT

When Sony brought out the VCR, it made a record player that could
play Hollywood's records, even if Hollywood didn't like the idea.
The industries that grew up on the back of the VCR -- movie
rentals, home taping, camcorders, even Bar Mitzvah videographers
-- made billions for Sony and its cohort.

That was good business -- even if Sony lost the Betamax-VHS
format wars, the money on the world-with-VCRs table was enough to
make up for it.

But then Sony acquired a relatively tiny entertainment company
and it started to massively screw up. When MP3 rolled around and
Sony's walkman customers were clamoring for a solid-state MP3
player, Sony let its music business-unit run its show: instead of
making a high-capacity MP3 walkman, Sony shipped its Music Clips,
low-capacity devices that played brain-damaged DRM formats like
Real and OpenMG. They spent good money engineering "features"
into these devices that kept their customers from freely moving
their music back and forth between their devices. Customers
stayed away in droves.

Today, Sony is dead in the water when it comes to walkmen. The
market leaders are poky Singaporean outfits like Creative Labs --
the kind of company that Sony used to crush like a bug, back
before it got borged by its entertainment unit -- and PC
companies like Apple.

That's because Sony shipped a product that there was no market
demand for. No Sony customer woke up one morning and said, "Damn,
I wish Sony would devote some expensive engineering effort in
order that I may do less with my music." Presented with an
alternative, Sony's customers enthusiastically jumped ship.

The same thing happened to a lot of people I know who used to rip
their CDs to WMA. You guys sold them software that produced
smaller, better-sounding rips than the MP3 rippers, but you also
fixed it so that the songs you ripped were device-locked to their
PCs. What that meant is that when they backed up their music to
another hard-drive and reinstalled their OS (something that the
spyware and malware wars has made more common than ever), they
discovered that after they restored their music that they could
no longer play it. The player saw the new OS as a different
machine, and locked them out of their own music.

There is no market demand for this "feature." None of your
customers want you to make expensive modifications to your
products that make backing up and restoring even harder. And
there is no moment when your customers will be less forgiving
than the moment that they are recovering from catastrophic
technology failures.

I speak from experience. Because I buy a new Powerbook every ten
months, and because I always order the new models the day they're
announced, I get a lot of lemons from Apple. That means that I
hit Apple's three-iTunes-authorized-computers limit pretty early
on and found myself unable to play the hundreds of dollars' worth
of iTunes songs I'd bought because one of my authorized machines
was a lemon that Apple had broken up for parts, one was in the
shop getting fixed by Apple, and one was my mom's computer, 3,000
miles away in Toronto.

If I had been a less good customer for Apple's hardware, I would
have been fine. If I had been a less enthusiastic evangelist for
Apple's products -- if I hadn't shown my mom how iTunes Music
Store worked -- I would have been fine. If I hadn't bought so
much iTunes music that burning it to CD and re-ripping it and
re-keying all my metadata was too daunting a task to consider, I
would have been fine.

As it was Apple rewarded my trust, evangelism and out-of-control
spending by treating me like a crook and locking me out of my own
music, at a time when my Powerbook was in the shop -- i.e., at a
time when I was hardly disposed to feel charitable to Apple.

I'm an edge case here, but I'm a *leading edge* case. If Apple
succeeds in its business plans, it will only be a matter of time
until even average customers have upgraded enough hardware and
bought enough music to end up where I am.

You know what I would totally buy? A record player that let me
play everybody's records. Right now, the closest I can come to
that is an open source app called VLC, but it's clunky and buggy
and it didn't come pre-installed on my computer.

Sony didn't make a Betamax that only played the movies that
Hollywood was willing to permit -- Hollywood asked them to do it,
they proposed an early, analog broadcast flag that VCRs could
hunt for and respond to by disabling recording. Sony ignored them
and made the product they thought their customers wanted.

I'm a Microsoft customer. Like millions of other Microsoft
customers, I want a player that plays anything I throw at it, and
I think that you are just the company to give it to me.

Yes, this would violate copyright law as it stands, but Microsoft
has been making tools of piracy that change copyright law for
decades now. Outlook, Exchange and MSN are tools that abet
widescale digital infringement.

More significantly, IIS and your caching proxies all make and
serve copies of documents without their authors' consent,
something that, if it is legal today, is only legal because
companies like Microsoft went ahead and did it and dared
lawmakers to prosecute.

Microsoft stood up for its customers and for progress, and won so
decisively that most people never even realized that there was a
fight.

Do it again! This is a company that looks the world's roughest,
toughest anti-trust regulators in the eye and laughs. Compared to
anti-trust people, copyright lawmakers are pantywaists. You can
take them with your arm behind your back.

In Siva Vaidhyanathan's book The Anarchist in the Library, he
talks about why the studios are so blind to their customers'
desires. It's because people like you and me spent the 80s and
the 90s telling them bad science fiction stories about impossible
DRM technology that would let them charge a small sum of money
every time someone looked at a movie -- want to fast-forward?
That feature costs another penny. Pausing is two cents an hour.
The mute button will cost you a quarter.

When Mako Analysis issued their report last month advising phone
companies to stop supporting Symbian phones, they were just
writing the latest installment in this story. Mako says that
phones like my P900, which can play MP3s as ringtones, are bad
for the cellphone economy, because it'll put the extortionate
ringtone sellers out of business. What Mako is saying is that
just because you bought the CD doesn't mean that you should
expect to have the ability to listen to it on your MP3 player,
and just because it plays on your MP3 player is no reason to
expect it to run as a ringtone. I wonder how they feel about
alarm clocks that will play a CD to wake you up in the morning?
Is that strangling the nascent "alarm tone" market?

The phone companies' customers want Symbian phones and for now,
at least, the phone companies understand that if they don't sell
them, someone else will.

The market opportunity for a truly capable devices is enormous.
There's a company out there charging *$27,000* for a DVD
jukebox -- go and eat their lunch! Steve Jobs isn't going to do
it: he's off at the D conference telling studio execs not to
release hi-def movies until they're sure no one will make a
hi-def DVD burner that works with a PC.

Maybe they won't buy into his BS, but they're also not much
interested in what you have to sell. At the Broadcast Protection
Discussion Group meetings where the Broadcast Flag was hammered
out, the studios' position was, "We'll take anyone's DRM except
Microsoft's and Philips'." When I met with UK broadcast wonks
about the European version of the Broadcast Flag underway at the
Digital Video Broadcasters' forum, they told me, "Well, it's
different in Europe: mostly they're worried that some American
company like Microsoft will get their claws into European
television."

American film studios didn't want the Japanese electronics
companies to get a piece of the movie pie, so they fought the
VCR. Today, everyone who makes movies agrees that they don't want
to let you guys get between them and their customers.

Sony didn't get permission. Neither should you. Go build the
record player that can play everyone's records.

Because if you don't do it, someone else will. 

eof
THE CHRISTMAS BOOK 



BY FRANCIS X. WEISER  


ILLUSTRATED BY ROBERT FRANKENBERG 

Copyright, 1952, by Francis X. Weiser

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 52-11344

IMPRIMI POTEST: William E. Fitzgerald, S.J., Provincial 
NIHIL OBSTAT: Hugh F. Blunt, LL.D., Censor librorum 
IMPRIMATUR: +Richard J. Cushing, D.D., Archbishop of Boston

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS: To Edasi Publishers, Caracas, Venezuela, for 
permission to translate a carol, and to Pantheon Books for 
permission to use some of the music for carols from "The Trapp 
Family Book of Christmas Songs." To Edward C. Currie for his 
assistance in research on carols and to the Rev. William A. 
Donaghy, S.J., the Rev. Gerard Barly, to Allan J. Doherty, and to 
Mary R. Geiger for help in preparing the manuscript. Also to Mr. 
John V. Driscoll, S.J., and members of Weston College Choir.

The notes referred to by number throughout the text are to be 
found at the end of the book.

Figures in parentheses after the names of persons indicate the 
year of death.



TO THE MEMORY OF A CHERISHED FRIEND 


GEORG VON TRAPP 1880-1941



CONTENTS

Foreword
Introduction: The First Christmas

     1. Gospel and History 
     2. Origin of the Feast 
     3. Christmas in the Middle Ages 
     4. Decline and Revival 
     5. The Midnight Mass 
     6. Ancient Hymns and Carols 
     7. Carols for Every Mood 
     8. Familiar Hymns and Carols 
     9. Nativity Plays 
     10. The Christmas Crib 
     11. Symbolic Lights and Fires 
     12. The Christmas Tree 
     13. Christmas Plants and Flowers 
     14. Breads and Pastries 
     15. The Christmas Dinner 
     16. The Battle of the Mince Pie 
     17. Saint Nicholas 
     18. The Significance of Exchanging Presents 
     19. Santa Claus
     20. Cherished Customs--Old and New
Reference Notes
Index



FOREWORD

Over the known world, about two thousand years ago, the 
victorious Roman eagle jealously brooded; Rome's irresistible 
armies had won the earth, her navies swept and scoured the seas, 
her coffers were swollen with tribute; but her fine, primitive 
virility was rotting into that decadence which Tacitus would so 
tersely sum up. Poets like Keats and minor disciples of Rousseau 
might look back longingly on those days which distance has 
haloed in enchantment; but the glory that was Greece and the 
splendor that was Rome had become bright garments, brocaded 
bandages over deep and fatal sores. The great masses of people 
were economically poor or enslaved, cruelty was a policy, and the 
mighty were blessed because they possessed the land. The world, 
in Augustine's summary, was moving slowly and inexorably toward 
the edge of perdition, and fear was the climate of man's normal 
living. All this was changed because one night in a cattle shed, in a 
small town of a despised area dependent on the Imperial Province 
of Syria, a young girl gave birth to a boy Child. All history revolves 
around that event which is central in liturgy as it is in life. 
Christmas is the birthday of an era, the inauguration of a culture, 
the beginning of a creed, the fountainhead of man's hope.

I have herein tried to recall the origins and historical significance 
of these customs and ceremonies with which Christian men 
surrounded the birthday of their King, with the hope that it will 
warm the heart and bring closer to all who read it the real 
significance and meaning of our Christmas customs.

FRANCIS X. WEISER, S.J. 
Weston College 
Weston, Massachusetts 



Introduction: THE FIRST CHRISTMAS

The Birth of Jesus (Luke 2, 1-7) -- Now it came to pass in those 
days, that there went forth a decree from Caesar Augustus that a 
census of the whole world should be taken. This first census took 
place while Cyrinus was governor of Syria. And all were going, 
each to his own town, to register.

And Joseph also went from Galilee out of the town of Nazareth into 
Judea to the town of David, which is called Bethlehem--because he 
was of the house and family of David--to register, together with 
Mary his espoused wife, who was with child. And it came to pass 
while they were there, that the days for her to be delivered were 
fulfilled. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped 
him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there 
was no room for them in the inn.

The Shepherds at the Crib (Luke 2, 8-20) -- And there were 
shepherds in the same district living in the fields and keeping 
watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord 
stood by them and the glory of God shone round about them, and 
they feared exceedingly.

And the angel said to them, "Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring 
you good news of great joy which shall be to all the people; for 
there has been born to you today in the town of David a Saviour, 
who is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign to you: you will find 
an infant wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger." 
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly 
host praising God and saying,

     "Glory to God in the highest, 
     and peace on earth among men 
     of good will."

And it came to pass, when the angels had departed from them into 
heaven, that the shepherds were saying to one another, "Let us go 
over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which 
the Lord has made known to us."

So they went with haste, and they found Mary and Joseph, and the 
babe lying in the manger. And when they had seen, they 
understood what had been told them concerning this child. And all 
who heard marveled at the things told them by the shepherds. But 
Mary kept in mind all these words, pondering them in her heart. 
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all 
they had heard and seen, even as it was spoken to them.

The Magi (Matthew 2, 1-12) -- Now when Jesus was born in 
Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of King Herod, behold, there came 
Magi from the East to Jerusalem, saying, "Where is the newly born 
king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the East and have 
come to worship him." But when King Herod heard this, he was 
troubled, and so was all Jerusalem with him. And gathering 
together all the chief priests and Scribes of the people, he inquired 
of them where the Christ was to be born. And they said to him, "In 
Bethlehem of Judea; for thus it is written through the prophet, 

     'And thou, Bethlehem, of the land of Juda, 
          art by no means least among the princes of Juda;
     For from thee shall come forth a leader 
          who shall rule my people of Israel.'"

Then Herod summoned the Magi secretly, and carefully 
ascertained from them the time when the star had appeared to 
them. And sending them to Bethlehem, he said, "Go and make 
careful inquiry concerning the child, and when you have found 
him, bring me word, that I too may go and worship him."

Now they, having heard the king, went their way. And behold, the 
star that they had seen in the East went before them, until it came 
and stood over the place where the child was. And when they saw 
the star they rejoiced exceedingly. And entering the house, they 
found the child with Mary his mother, and falling down they 
worshipped him. And opening their treasures they offered him 
gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh. And being warned in a 
dream not to return to Herod, they went back to their own country 
by another way.

The Innocents (Matthew 2, 16-18) -- Then Herod, seeing that he had 
been tricked by the Magi, was exceedingly angry; and he sent and 
slew all the boys in Bethlehem and all its neighborhood who were 
two years and under, according to the time that he had carefully 
ascertained from the Magi. Then was fulfilled what was spoken 
through Jeremias the prophet, saying:

     "A voice was heard in Rama, 
          weeping and loud lamentation;
     Rachel weeping for her children, 
          and she would not be comforted, 
          because they are no more."



Chapter 1: GOSPEL AND HISTORY

The Year of Christ's Birth -- Have you ever observed that the Gospel 
reports do not mention the year in which Christ was born? Even the 
few historical facts given by St. Luke and St. Matthew do not help 
to establish the year. The Evangelists recorded the actions and 
teachings of Christ as a catechetical sketch with no thought of 
days and dates to satisfy the later demands of scholars. The 
Apostles, of course, did not write as scientists and historians but 
as religious instructors.

When scholars finally approached the problem, there was so little 
to go on that an error was made. This happened in the sixth 
century when a learned monk in Rome, Dionysius "the little" 
Exiguus (about 540), conceived the idea of introducing a Christian 
calendar. Reckoning historical events as best he could, he 
assigned the year one--the date of the birth of Jesus--to the year 
754 after the founding of Rome. Actually he made a mistake of at 
least four years. It is now generally agreed by historians that King 
Herod "the Great" died within a few days of April first, in the year 4 
B.C. It is known from the Gospel that at Herod's death Jesus was 
with Mary and Joseph in Egypt. From all available facts His age was 
then between six months and three years, so He must have been 
born between the years 7 B.C. and 4 B.C.

The modern world still follows and perpetuates the error of 
Dionysius Exiguus because it would be impossible at this late date 
to change and rearrange every event of history, every recorded 
time-table, all the dates in books and documents, for the last 
fourteen centuries. But to those who celebrate the central fact of 
Christ's birth it makes little difference whether the actual year of 
the Nativity was 6 or 5 B.C.

The Place of the Nativity -- The Gospel tells us that Mary laid her 
child in a manger. Where was this manger? In the limestone area 
around Bethlehem are a number of natural caves which were used 
as shelters for animals. The fact that Christ was born in one of 
these caves has been substantiated. As early as 160, St. Justin the 
Martyr, who himself was a native of Palestine, gave the clear 
testimony: "Joseph lodged in a certain cave near the village; and 
then, while they were yet there, Mary gave birth to the Christ and 
placed Him in a manger...."[1]

The pagan Romans unwittingly helped to preserve the knowledge 
of the cave in which Christ was born, since from the time of 
Emperor Hadrian (138) to that of Constantine the Great (337) they 
deliberately desecrated the most sacred shrines of Christianity by 
establishing centers of pagan worship in these spots. They turned 
the place of Christ's birth into a grotto and grove of the god 
Adonis, a beautiful youth who, according to pagan legend, had 
been in love with the goddess Aphrodite (Venus) and was killed by 
a wild boar in the prime of his life. His death was mourned by 
worshipers in a ritual of wailing and mourning.

St. Jerome (420), who lived for a long time in Bethlehem, wrote 
about this desecration: "In the cave which had heard the tender 
wailings of the infant Christ, the lover of Venus was bemoaned."[2] 
The Christian writer Origen (about 250) stated at the beginning of 
the third century that even the pagans knew the grotto in which 
the Saviour was born and would point it out to the pilgrims.[3]

After his conversion to Christianity Emperor Constantine in 325 
ordered that a magnificent church be built over the cave. This 
basilica was almost ruined in the Samaritan revolt (521-528) and 
was restored by Emperor Justinian (565). The Persians, invading 
Palestine in 614, completely destroyed the Christian shrines at 
Nazareth and Jerusalem but respected the church of the Nativity 
in Bethlehem. According to an ancient report the wall above the 
entrance was decorated with a mosaic depicting the adoration of 
the wise men, and the Persians, recognizing in the picture the 
national dress and insignia of their magi, were so stricken with 
awe that they did not dare lay hands on the building.[4] Under 
Mohammedan rule the basilica suffered much damage and neglect 
at various times, but was never destroyed. Apart from repairs and 
additions made in different centuries, the original structure is still 
preserved. The official name of the church is "St. Mary of the 
Nativity."

Underneath the sanctuary of the basilica is the grotto of the 
Nativity, the final goal of devout pilgrims throughout the 
centuries. Originally the cave was fairly spacious and formed 
several recesses. In one of these was the crib. St. Jerome asserts 
that it was made of "hardened clay." That would indicate a 
limestone crib hollowed out of the side of the wall and lined with 
clay. Cribs of this type are still in use in Palestine.[5]

The whole cave has now been transformed into a crypt chapel. The 
ceiling is natural, the ground and the walls are made of white 
Italian marble and decorated with precious ornaments, and many 
lamps burn day and night. The spot where according to ancient 
tradition Christ was born, is marked with a silver star in a circle of 
reddish stone, and surrounding it are the words, "Hic de Maria 
Virgine, Jesus Christus natus est" (Here Jesus Christ was born of the 
Virgin Mary).

The Firstborn Son -- The Gospel narrates that Mary brought forth 
her "firstborn" son. The word "firstborn" here does not have a 
numerical meaning as if He were the first of several children, but 
refers to the legal status of every male Israelite who was the first 
(or only) child of his parents. According to the Law the firstborn 
son (in Hebrew, bekor) had to be presented in the temple and 
redeemed by a sacrifice, since he belonged to God according to the 
ancient Covenant. He was consequently entered in the records as 
the "firstborn," although he might be the only child the couple 
ever had. Because of the misunderstanding as to just what 
"firstborn" meant many made use of it to deny the virginity of 
Mary, claiming she had other children, though today serious 
scholars admit such reasoning to be erroneous. The fact that the 
Jews called their son "firstborn" even when he was the only child, 
has recently been confirmed by the discovery of a tomb in Egypt, 
dating from the year 5 B.C. (about the time of Christ's birth). The 
inscription on this tomb pictures a Jewish mother saying she died 
in the birth-pangs of her "firstborn" son.[6] She could not very well 
have had more children if she died at the birth of her "firstborn."

The Song of the Angels -- The expression "good will" in the Gospel 
does not primarily mean the good will of men toward God or each 
other, but the good will of God toward men, that is, His love, 
benevolence, kindness, and mercy. The exact sense therefore is, 
"and on earth peace to men possessing Divine good will."

The English version of the angels' song varies according to 
different readings in the early Greek manuscripts. It all depends 
on one single "s" (eudokia or eulokias: "good will" or "of good will"). 
Most scholars favor the form eudokias. On it are based the 
translations of the Latin (Vulgate), the Syriac, Coptic, and Gothic 
texts, as well as the Latin Fathers of the Church. The Vulgate is the 
official text in the Catholic Church. It reads in English translation:

     Glory to God in the highest, 
     and peace on earth among men of good will.

The other reading (eudokia) is found in some Greek manuscripts 
and has been widespread in the Eastern churches. It came into 
English literature through the translators of the King James Bible, 
and has been generally used by most churches among the English-
speaking nations. It reads in English:

     Glory to God on high 
     and peace on earth! 
     Good will to men!

In late years many scholars--for scientific reasons--have returned 
to the so-called "Catholic" version (eudokias). The Revised 
Standard Version (Protestant) of the New Testament reads: "on 
earth peace among men  with whom he [God] is pleased."[7]

The Adoration of the Shepherds -- Pictures of the Nativity often 
represent Mary as holding the Child in her arms while the 
shepherds enter. This scene does not correspond with the text. The 
Gospel clearly says that the shepherds found Mary and Joseph, 
"and the babe lying in the manger." Moreover, the angel had 
announced to them as a special sign that the Child would be found 
lying in the manger.

When Mary is represented holding her Child while the shepherds 
adore, it is because pious imagination has adorned the Gospel 
report with added details, picturing her taking the Infant from the 
crib after the shepherds had found Him, holding Him in her arms 
while they worship. But more accurately at the moment of the 
shepherds' approach the Infant should be pictured as lying in the 
crib. The best representation of this scene seems to be Baroccio's 
Nativity. He places the manger against the wall, and, it would 
appear, carved out of the rock. Mary kneels adoring before the crib 
while St. Joseph stands at the door and motions the shepherds to 
enter.

The Gospel does not report that the shepherds brought presents to 
the Christ Child. This detail, so often expressed and described in 
our Christmas stories and pictures, is also an addition to the text 
and was probably inspired by the love and affection of devout 
people everywhere from early centuries up to the present day.

The Magi -- The name "magi" is not a Hebrew word but of Indo-
Germanic origin, meaning "great, illustrious." St. Matthew mentions 
the term without explanation because it was well known to the 
people of Palestine. The Magi originated in Media (Persia) and their 
caste later spread to other oriental countries. They were a highly 
esteemed class of priestly scholars, devoting themselves not only 
to religion but also to the study of natural sciences, medicine, 
mathematics, astronomy, and astrology. In several countries they 
were members of the king's council.

Quite early in the Christian era a popular tradition conferred on 
the Magi of Bethlehem the title of kings. This tradition became 
universal at the end of the sixth century. It was based on Biblical 
prophecies which described the conversion of the pagans and, 
although not referring to the Magi, was applied to their visit, as, 
for instance, in the following texts:

"The kings of Tharsis and the islands shall offer presents: the 
kings of the Arabians and of Saba shall bring gifts."--Psalm 71,10.

"The kings shall walk in the brightness of thy rising....They all 
shall come from Saba, bringing gold and frankincense."--Isaias 60, 
3-6.

Where did the Magi come from? St. Matthew gives a general 
answer: "Wise men from the East." Was it Persia or Arabia? 
Speaking in modern terms, it could have been any one of the 
countries of Arabia, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, or India. It has never 
been exactly determined from which of these countries they came.

Neither has their exact number ever been established. The Gospel 
does not tell us how many they were. The Christians in the Orient 
had a tradition of twelve Magi. In early paintings and mosaics they 
are represented as two, three, four and even more. In the 
occidental church a slowly spreading tradition put their number at 
three. This tradition became universal in the sixth century. It does 
not seem to have any historical foundation but was probably based 
on the fact of the threefold presents which the Magi offered. 
Another reason for the number three was the early legend that they 
were representing all humanity in the three great races of Sem, 
Cham, and Japhet. This particular legend is also the reason for 
picturing one of the three as a member of the black race.

The book "Collectanea et Flores," ascribed to St. Bede the Venerable 
(735), records an early legend of their names and appearance: "The 
first was called Melchior; he was an old man, with white hair and 
long beard; he offered gold to the Lord as to his king. The second, 
Gaspar by name, young, beardless, of ruddy hue, offered to Jesus 
his gift of incense, the homage due to Divinity. The third, of black 
complexion, with heavy beard, was called Baltasar; the myrrh he 
held in his hands prefigured the death of the Son of man."[8]

There is an old legend that when many years had passed the Magi 
were visited by St. Thomas the Apostle, who after instructing them 
in Christianity, baptized them. They were then ordained to the 
priesthood and later made bishops. It is said that once more the 
star of Bethlehem appeared to them--reunited them toward the end 
of their lives. "The city of Sewa in the Orient" is given as the place 
of their burial.[9] The legendary relics of the Magi were brought to 
Constantinople in the fifth century; one hundred years later they 
were transferred to Milan, and in 1164 to Cologne under Emperor 
Barbarossa (1190). Their shrine in Cologne was, and still is, the 
center of many pilgrimages.

The Massacre of Bethlehem -- King Herod (4 B.C.) is considered one 
of the cruelest tyrants in history. In the course of his reign, it is 
reported, he drowned his brother-in-law, a youth of sixteen, who 
was High Priest of Israel; he killed his uncle Joseph, his wife 
Mariamne, and his mother-in-law Alexandra. His brother-in-law, 
Kostobar, together with several members of his family, was killed 
by his order. A few years before the birth of Christ, Herod 
murdered his two sons Alexander and Aristobulus, and had three 
hundred officials slain whom he accused of siding with the two 
young men. In the year 4 B.C., only five days before his death, he 
had his firstborn son Antipater executed. And when he realized 
that his own death would probably be greeted with joy and relief 
by the populace, he brought hundreds of the most illustrious Jews 
together at Jericho and ordered his servants to kill them all as 
soon as he died, hoping in this way to make certain there would be 
tears and mourning in Israel when he was buried. Fortunately, this 
mad order was not carried out.

Herod like all tyrants killed thousands of innocent people whom 
he suspected of plotting against him. He was so suspicious of his 
own subjects and terrified at the thought of rebellion that he 
ordered the people by special decrees to keep busy at all times. He 
forbade them to meet together, to walk or eat in groups, and he 
had his spies everywhere, both in the city and rural districts, 
watching every move of the citizens. Public and private executions 
of countless victims took place in his citadel of Hyrcania 
(overlooking the Dead Sea).[10]

This is the man, St. Matthew reports, who "sent and slew all the 
boys in Bethlehem and its neighborhood who were two years and 
under" (2, 16). How many children were killed? At times their 
number has been wildly exaggerated, as hundreds, even 
thousands. An approximate figure might be estimated, however, 
because at the time of Christ, Bethlehem was a small town or 
village. Assuming a population of two thousand souls, the number 
of boys of two years and under might be around thirty. Most 
modern scholars consider even this figure too high and put the 
number at fifteen or twenty victims. (This slaughter is now 
commemorated on the Feast of the Holy Innocents.)

The Names of Christmas -- The original Latin names for Christmas 
are: Festum Nativitatis Domini Nostri Jesu Christi (The Feast of the 
Nativity of Our Lord Jesus Christ) and the shorter form, Dies 
Natalis Domini (The Birthday of Our Lord).

From these Latin names most nations derive their popular terms 
for the Christmas Feast: Il Natale in Italy, La Navidad in Spain, 
Natal in Portugal, Nadal in Southern France, Nadolig in Wales (and 
probably the Gaelic Nollaig as well). The Greek Genethlia means 
"Nativity," as do the names for Christmas in Hungarian (Karacsony) 
and in most of the Slavic languages: Boze Narodzenie (God's birth) 
in Polish; Rozhdestvo Khrista (Christ's Birth) in Russian and 
Ukrainian.

The French word Noel can be explained as either coming from the 
Latin Natalis (birthday) or from the word Nowell which means 
"news." In an old English Christmas verse the angel says:

     I come from hevin to tell 
     The best nowellis that ever befell.

It is possible that both explanations are right. Noel and Nowell 
may be words of different origin which have become identical in 
meaning because they are pronounced the same.

The German word for Christmas is Weihnacht or (in the plural 
form) Weihnachten, which means "the blessed (or holy) night." 
Similar terms meaning "the holy night" are used in some Slavic 
languages (Czech, Slovak, Jugoslavian). The Lithuanian word 
Kaledos is derived from the verb kaledoti (to beg, to pray) and has 
the meaning, "Day of Prayer."

The English word "Christmas" is based on the same pattern as the 
old names for other feast days in the liturgical year like 
Michaelmas, Martinmas, Candlemas, and so on. The first mention 
of the name, "Cristes Maesse," dates from the year 1038. It means 
"the Mass of Christ." The English nation (as did all Christian 
nations at the time) acknowledged the sacrifice of the Mass as the 
most important part of the Christmas celebration. For instance, the 
word in the Dutch language was Kersmis (the Mass of Christ); the 
old Dutch form is Kerstes-misse or Kersmisse.

The origin of the word "Yule" is disputed. Some scholars say it 
comes from the old Germanic word Iol (Iul, Giul, etc.), meaning a 
turning wheel (in this instance the sun-wheel rising after the 
winter solstice). A better explanation, however, might be the Anglo-
Saxon word geol (feast). Since the greatest popular feast in pre-
Christian times was the celebration of the winter solstice, the 
whole month of December was called geola (feast-month). This 
name was preserved in the English and German languages, and 
later applied to the feast of Christmas: "Yule" in English, and Jul in 
German.

What is the original meaning of our popular greeting, "Merry 
Christmas"? When this greeting was originally used, the word 
"merry" did not mean "joyful, hilarious, gay," as it does today. In 
those days it meant "blessed, peaceful, pleasant," expressing 
spiritual joys rather than earthly happiness. It was thus used in the 
famous phrase, "Merry England."

The well-known carol, "God rest you merry, gentlemen," is an 
excellent example of the original meaning of "merry." The position 
of the comma clearly shows the true meaning (that the word is not 
an adjective describing "gentlemen"), and therefore is not, "God 
rest you, joyful gentlemen," but, "God rest you peacefully, 
gentlemen."



Chapter 2: ORIGIN OF THE FEAST

There is no record in history, nor even any well-founded tradition, 
which gives the date of the Saviour's birth. How, then, was 
December twenty-fifth chosen as Christmas day? It was a common 
belief among the early Christians of the West that the Nativity took 
place on the twenty-fifth day of the month; but the exact month 
was quite uncertain. And so, for the first three centuries, the 
celebration of Christmas was assigned to various days of the year.

In most places there was no special feast of the Nativity, but the 
commemoration of the Saviour's birth used to be included in the 
feast of the Epiphany (Manifestations) on January sixth, one of the 
oldest annual feasts.

There are, however, a few indications from the early centuries that 
a special religious feast was celebrated, at least in some places, in 
honor of the Nativity. But there is no mention at all of any popular 
celebration. After all the early Christians would not very well have 
had a "Christmas" in their homes when their religion was 
persecuted and they were forced to hide in the catacombs. They 
loved and honored the Divine Child heroically, often suffering a 
martyr's death.

Soon after the end of the last great persecution, however, about 
the year 320, the Church in Rome definitely assigned December 
twenty-fifth for the celebration of the birth of Christ. For a while, 
many Eastern churches continued to keep other dates, but toward 
the end of the fourth century the Roman custom became universal. 
The Church did not, of course, rule that we know the precise date 
of Christ's birth, but merely assigned a certain day in order to 
unify the celebration of a religious feast of such importance. The 
fact that December twenty-fifth was chosen, does not seem to rest 
so much on historical findings, as in the great desire to replace the 
popular pagan celebration of the winter solstice by the festivities 
of a truly Christian holiday.

Since about A.D. 400 the whole Christian world has celebrated 
Christmas on December twenty-fifth, with the exception of the 
Greek churches, where it is celebrated thirteen days after that date 
because they did not accept the Gregorian calendar. (Gregory XIII, 
in 1582, corrected the old Julian calendar--established by Julius 
Caesar in 40 B.C.--which by that time was ten days behind the 
actual time schedule. He not only eliminated these ten days but 
provided for future accuracy by a simple but ingenious 
arrangement of leap years. The Greek churches, which follow the 
old Julian calendar, are still thirteen days behind our dates.)

The old Romans celebrated a pagan feast on December twenty-
fifth which they called the "Birthday of the Unconquered Sun" 
(Natalis Solis Invicti). This was a feast of the Mithras cult in honor 
of the Sun-god, celebrating the winter solstice. Consequently, it 
has been said that the Nativity is only a "Christianized pagan 
festival." But all Christians during this period were keenly aware of 
the difference between the two celebrations--one pagan and one 
Christian--on the same day. In fact, the Popes seem rather to have 
chosen December twenty-fifth precisely for the purpose of 
inspiring the people to turn from the worship of a material sun to 
the adoration of Christ the Lord. This thought seems to be 
indicated in the writings of contemporary Fathers of the Church. 
St. Cyprian (258) wrote the beautiful words: "O, how wonderfully 
acted Divine Providence that on the day on which the Sun was born 
(solstice)...Christ should be born!"[11] St. John Chrysostom (407) 
exclaimed in one of his books: "They (the pagans) call December 
twenty-fifth the Birthday of the Unconquered: Who is indeed so 
unconquered as our Lord?...or, if they say that it is the birthday 
of the Sun: He is the Sun of Justice."[12]

Some Christians, who thoughtlessly retained external symbols of 
the Sun-worship on Christmas day, were immediately and sternly 
reproved by their religious superiors and those abuses were 
suppressed. Proof of this are the many examples of such warnings 
in the writings of Tertullian (third century) and the Christian 
authors of the fourth and fifth centuries, especially the sermons of 
Pope St. Leo I (461) and St. Augustine (430).

The error of confusing Yule (solstice) and Christmas (the "Mass of 
Christ"), as if both celebrations had a common origin, occurs even 
in our time. Expressions like "Christmas originated four thousand 
years ago" or "the pagan origins of Christmas" and similar 
misleading phrases have only added to the confusion.

While it is certainly true that some popular features and symbols 
of our Christmas celebration had their origin in pre-Christian 
Yuletide customs, Christmas itself--the feast, its meaning and 
message--is in no way connected with any pagan mythology or 
Yule rite.

The celebration of three Masses on Christmas day (the first 
traditionally held at midnight), is an old custom founded in the 
fifth century by the Church. The three Masses were celebrated in 
Rome with great solemnity; the first at the Chapel of the Manger in 
the church of St. Mary Major; the second in the church of St. 
Anastasia (which served as court chapel for the officials of the 
Emperor who resided at Constantinople); the third in St. Peter's. At 
this third Mass, on Christmas day A.D. 800, Pope Leo III crowned 
Charles the Great and proclaimed the new Christian (Roman) 
Empire of the West.

Christmas soon became a feast of such great importance that from 
the fifth to the tenth century it marked the beginning of the 
ecclesiastical year.

The Emperor Theodosius, in 425, forbade the cruel circus games 
on Christmas day, and Emperor Justinian, in 529, prohibited work 
and public business, declaring Christmas a civic holiday. The 
council of Agde (506) urged all Christians to receive Holy 
Communion on Christmas day. The council of Tours (567) 
proclaimed the twelve days from Christmas to Epiphany as a 
sacred and festive season, and established the duty of Advent 
fasting in preparation for the feast. The council of Braga (563) 
forbade fasting on Christmas day.

Thus the groundwork was laid for a joyful celebration of the Lord's 
Nativity, not only in the house of God, but also in the hearts and 
homes of the people.



Chapter 3: CHRISTMAS IN THE MIDDLE AGES

The great religious pioneers and missionaries who brought 
Christianity to the pagan tribes of Europe, also introduced the 
celebration of Christmas. It came to Ireland through St. Patrick 
(493), to England through St. Augustine of Canterbury (604), to 
Germany through St. Boniface (7S4). The Irish monks, St. 
Columban (615) and St. Gall (646), introduced it into Switzerland 
and Western Austria; the Scandinavians received it through St. 
Ansgar (865). To the Slavic tribes it was brought by their apostles, 
the brothers St. Cyril (869) and St. Methodius (885); to Hungary by 
St. Adalbert (997).

Most of these Saints were the first bishops of the countries they 
converted and as such they established and regulated the 
celebration of the Nativity. In England, St. Augustine observed it 
with great solemnity. On Christmas day, 598, he baptized more 
than ten thousand Britons. In Germany, the observance of 
Christmas festivities was officially regulated by a synod in Mainz 
in 813.

About the year 1100, all the nations of Europe had accepted 
Christianity, and Christmas was celebrated everywhere with great 
devotion and joy. The period from the twelfth to the sixteenth 
century was the peak of a general Christian celebration of the 
Nativity, not only in churches and monasteries, but in every home 
as well. It was a time of inspiring and colorful religious services. 
Carols and Christmas plays were written. It was at this period, too, 
that the many delightful Christmas customs of each country were 
introduced. Some have since died out; others have changed 
slightly through the ages; many have survived to our day. A few 
practices had to be suppressed as being improper and scandalous, 
such as the custom of dancing and mumming in church, the "Boy 
Bishop's Feast," the "Feast of the Ass," New Year's fires, 
superstitious (pagan) meals, impersonations of the devil, 
irreverent carols, and similar abuses.

It was during the period from 1100 to 1500 that a large number of 
popular practices, legends, and superstitions developed. For 
example: At midnight on Christmas, it was thought that a 
mysterious universal celebration took place in nature, that a spirit 
of peace and adoration prevailed over the whole world. The cattle 
in the stables fell on their knees; so also the deer in the forest. 
This legend found its way into the New World through the French 
in Canada, who spread it among the Indians. Harrison in his 
"Sketches of Upper Canada" relates how at midnight one Christmas 
eve he met an Indian creeping cautiously along in the stillness of 
the woods. The Indian, upon seeing him, motioned him to be 
silent, and when asked for the reason, replied that he was out to 
watch the deer kneel because he believed that on Christmas night 
all deer would fall on their knees to the Great Spirit and adore.[13]

Similar legends relate that the bees awake from sleep and hum a 
beautiful symphony of praise to the Divine Child; but only those 
can hear it who are dear to the Lord. In the Orient there is a legend 
that during the holy night all trees and plants, especially those on 
the banks of the Jordan, bow in reverence to the Saviour. The birds 
sing all night at Christmas; their voices become sweeter and more 
melodious, even the sparrows sound like nightingales. A 
Lithuanian legend relates how on Christmas eve the water in wells 
and fountains is blessed by God with great healing powers and 
heavenly sweetness. Mysterious bells are heard pealing joyously 
during the holy night from the depths of deserted mines, and 
cheerful lights may be seen blinking at the bottom of lonely shafts 
and caves.

One of the oldest Christian legends is the charming story related 
by St. Gregory of Tours (594) in his Libri Miraculorum (Book of 
Miracles) concerning the Well of the Magi near Bethlehem. The 
people of Bethlehem made a practice of going there during 
Christmas week, bending over the opening of the well and 
covering themselves and the opening with blankets or cloaks, to 
shut out the light of day. Then, as they peered into the dark well, 
the star of Bethlehem, according to this pious practice, could be 
seen moving slowly across the water--but only by those who were 
pure of heart.[14]

Other legends tell of how animals could talk like humans at 
midnight. Their favorite language seemed to be Latin. In an old 
French mystery play the cock crows with a piercing voice, 
"Christus natus est" (Christ is born): the ox moos "Ubi?" (Where?): 
the lamb answers "Bethlehem," and the ass brays "Eamus!" (Let us 
go!).[15] In the Austrian Tyrol the animals in the stable are said to 
gossip about the public and hidden faults of those who listen in on 
their conversation. In Lithuania, the cattle and sheep and horses 
compare notes as to how they were treated by their masters during 
the past year.

It was a widespread practice to be especially kind to animals at 
Christmas and to allow them to share in the joy of the Feast. As 
you may have already guessed, this custom was begun by St. 
Francis of Assisi (1226). He admonished the farmers to give their 
oxen and asses extra corn and hay at Christmas, "for reverence of 
the Son of God, whom on such a night the blessed Virgin Mary did 
lay down in the stall between the ox and the ass." All creation, said 
he, should rejoice at Christmas, and the dumb creatures had no 
other means of doing so than by enjoying more comfort and better 
food. "If I could see the Emperor," he said, "I would implore him to 
issue a general decree that all people who are able to do so, shall 
throw grain and corn upon the streets, so that on this great feast 
day the birds might have enough to eat, especially our sisters, the 
larks."[16]

According to the counsel of this lovable Saint, new straw was put 
in the stables at Christmas, more and better food was given to 
beasts, the wild birds were fed with corn, and all domestic animals 
were granted a time of rest from hard work during the twelve days 
of the holy season.

Another legend inspired the popular belief that the power of 
malignant spirits, of ghosts and witches, was entirely suspended 
during the Christmas season. The mystical presence of the Christ 
Child made them powerless; no harm could be done to men, or 
beasts, or homes. Shakespeare has made this legend immortal by 
these familiar lines:

     Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes 
     Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated, 
     The bird of dawning singeth all night long: 
     And then, they say, no spirits dare stir abroad; 
     The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike, 
     No fairy takes, no witch has power to charm, 
     So hallowed and so gracious is the time.[17]

A very old and practical superstition made it obligatory on 
Christmas eve to see that the house was thoroughly cleaned, all 
borrowed articles returned, all tools laid aside, no lint allowed "to 
remain on rock or wheel," no unfinished work exposed to sight, 
and no task started which could not be finished by nightfall.

It was an old and comforting belief among the Irish people that the 
gates of Paradise were open Christmas at midnight, so that any 
person dying at that hour could enter Heaven at once. Another 
legend considered every child born at Christmas especially 
blessed and fortunate. In addition to other gifts and privileges, 
such children were said to have the power of seeing spirits, and 
even of commanding them.

Finally there is the lovely medieval legend of the "Christmas 
Angel." Every year--so the story goes--the blessed Virgin Mary 
selects a number of angels and sends them out from Heaven into 
various parts of the world. Each angel awakens a little child from 
its first sleep and carries it to Paradise to sing a carol to the Christ 
Child. When the children afterwards tell of their beautiful errand, 
some people will say it was just a dream; but those who know 
better will assure you that these children are chosen by God to be 
blessed with unusual favors in this life and with great glory in the 
next.



Chapter 4: DECLINE AND REVIVAL

With the Reformation in the sixteenth century there naturally came 
a sharp change in the Christmas celebration for many countries in 
Europe. The sacrifice of the Mass--the very soul of the Feast--was 
suppressed. The Holy Eucharist, the liturgy of the Divine Office, 
the sacramentals and ceremonies all disappeared. Gone were the 
colorful and inspiring processions, the veneration of the blessed 
Virgin Mary and the Saints. All this was ridiculed and forbidden as 
a "popish superstition."

In many countries all that remained of the once rich and glorious 
religious festival was a sermon and a prayer service on Christmas 
day. Although the people kept many of their customs alive, the 
deep religious inspiration was missing, and consequently the 
"new" Christmas turned more and more into a pagan feast of good-
natured reveling.

On the other hand, some sects including the German Lutherans 
preserved a tender devotion to the Christ Child and celebrated 
Christmas in a deeply spiritual way within their churches, hearts, 
and homes.

In England, however, the Puritans condemned even the reduced 
religious celebration which was held in the Anglican Church after 
the separation from Rome. They were determined to abolish 
Christmas altogether, both as a religious and as a popular feast. It 
was their contention that no feast of human institution should ever 
outrank the "sabbath" (Sunday); and as Christmas was the most 
important of the non-Sunday festivals, they directed against it all 
their attacks of fierce indignation. Pamphlets were published 
denouncing Christmas as pagan and its observance was declared 
to be sinful. In this anti-Christmas campaign these English sects 
were much encouraged by the example of similar groups in 
Scotland, where the celebration of the Feast was forbidden as early 
as 1583, and punishment inflicted on all persons observing it.

When the Puritans came to political power in England, they 
immediately proceeded to outlaw Christmas. The year 1642 saw 
the first ordinances issued forbidding church services and civic 
festivities on Christmas day. In 1644, the monthly day of fast and 
penance was appointed for December twenty-fifth. The people, 
however, paid scant attention to these orders and continued their 
celebrations. There was thus inaugurated a great campaign of two 
years' duration (1645-1647). Speeches, pamphlets and other 
publications, sermons and discussions were directed against the 
celebration of Christmas, calling it "antichrist-Mass, idolatry, 
abomination," and similar names. Following this barrage of 
propaganda, the Parliament ordained on June 3, 1647, that the 
feast of Christmas (and other holidays) should no longer be 
observed under pain of punishment. On December 24, 1652, an 
act of Parliament again reminded the public that "no observance 
shall be had on the five-and-twentieth of December, commonly 
called Christmas day; nor any solemnity used or exercised in 
churches in respect thereof."[18]

Each year, by order of Parliament, the town criers went through the 
streets a few days before Christmas, reminding their fellow-
citizens that "Christmas day and all other superstitious festivals" 
should not be observed, that market should be kept and the stores 
remain open on December twenty-fifth.

During the year 1647 popular riots broke out in various places 
against the law suppressing Christmas, especially in London, 
Oxford, Ipswich, Canterbury, and the whole county of Kent. In 
Oxford there was a "world of skull-breaking"; in Ipswich the 
festival was celebrated "with some loss of life"; in Canterbury "the 
mob mauled the mayor, broke all his windows as well as his bones, 
and put fire to his doorsteps."[19] An ominous note was sounded 
against the republican Commonwealth at a meeting of ten 
thousand men from Kent and Canterbury, who passed a solemn 
resolution that, "if they could not have their Christmas day, they 
would have the King back on his throne again."[20]

The government however stood firm and proceeded to break up 
Christmas celebrations by force of arms. People were arrested in 
many instances but were not punished beyond a few hours in jail. 
Anglican ministers who decorated their churches and held service 
on Christmas day, were removed from their posts and replaced by 
men of softer fiber.[21] Slowly, and relentlessly, the external 
observance of Christmas was extinguished. December twenty-fifth 
became a common work-day, and business went on as usual. But in 
spite of these repressive measures many people still celebrated 
the day with festive meals and merriment in the privacy of their 
homes.

When the old Christmas eventually returned with the restoration of 
the Monarchy (1660), it was actually a "new" Christmas. The fine 
old traditions of religious observance so close to the hearts of all 
Christians today had disappeared from the homes of England. 
What was left was a worldly, shallow feast, of amusements and 
reveling. Instead of the old carols in praise of the Child of 
Bethlehem, the English people observed Christmas with rollicking 
songs in praise of "plum pudding, goose, capon, minced pie and 
roast beef."[22] An excellent example of this new attitude is 
contained in a Christmas song from "Poor Robin's Almanack" 
(1695):

     Now thrice welcome Christmas,
          Which brings us good cheer,
     Minc'd pies and plum-porridge,
          Good ale and strong beer;
     With pig, goose and capon,
          The best that may be,
     So well does the weather
          And our stomachs agree.
     Observe how the chimneys
          Do smoke all about,
     The cooks are providing
          For dinner no doubt....

Two famous descriptions of this new kind of "Christmas without 
Christ," are found in Charles Dickens's "Christmas Stories" and in 
Washington Irving's "Sketch Book." These are typical of many 
individual Christmas celebrations in our own time, though even in 
these substitutions for a feast, once so deeply religious, the spirit 
of good will to all and of generosity to the poor prevails.

The Irish people for centuries were deprived of their beloved 
ancient Christmas customs through religious and political 
persecutions. Yet they are an outstanding example of a people who 
kept the very soul of Christmas alive through the ages, finally 
bringing it to new lands and sharing it with people of all faiths.

The unfortunate and misdirected zeal against Christmas persisted 
in America, far into the nineteenth century. In New England, it is 
hard to realize now, Christmas was outlawed until the second half 
of the last century. Our Pilgrim fathers, for instance, worked as 
usual on their first Christmas day in America, although they 
observed the most rigid Sabbath-rest on the preceding day, which 
was Sunday. Governor Bradford noted that "no man rested all day" 
on December 25, 1620. December twenty-fifth until 1856 was a 
common work-day in Boston, and those who refused to go to work 
on Christmas day were often dismissed. In New England today 
there are many who remember their grandparents telling them that 
in some instances factory owners would change the starting hours 
on Christmas day to five o'clock or some equally early hour in 
order that workers who wanted to attend a church service would 
have to forego, or be dismissed for being late for work. As late as 
1870, classes were held in the public schools of Boston on 
Christmas day and any pupil who stayed at home to observe the 
Feast was gravely punished, even shamed by public dismissal.

It was not until the Irish and German immigrants arrived in large 
numbers toward the middle of last century that Christmas in 
America began to flourish as it does today. The Germans brought 
their beloved Christmas tree. They were soon joined by the Irish, 
who contributed the ancient Gaelic custom of putting lights in the 
windows. Both groups, of course, brought the crib, or creche, their 
native carols and hymns, the three Masses on Christmas day, and 
the religious obligation of attending Mass and abstaining from 
work on the feast of the Nativity.

Very soon their neighbors, charmed by these unusual but 
attractive innovations, followed their example and made many of 
these customs their own. For some years, however, many 
clergymen continued to warn their congregations against 
celebrating Christmas with these "new" customs. But eventually a 
powerful surge of enthusiasm from people of all faiths swept 
resistance away. New Englanders especially were so won over by 
this friendly, charming way of celebrating Christmas that a revival 
of deeper and richer observance followed in many of their 
churches. One by one, the best of the old traditions were lovingly 
studied, revived, and became again common practice. Catholics 
and Protestants cooperated, uniting in a sincere effort to restore 
the beauties of a truly Christian celebration of the Nativity.

The Latin countries, many nations of Central Europe, especially the 
rural sections of southern Germany and Poland, the Alpine 
provinces of Austria, and Bavaria, have been especially loyal to 
ancient Christmas customs, blending charmingly the traditions of 
medieval times with the best of modern Christmas customs. In 
commemoration of the legend that tells how the birds and beasts 
of the field came to worship the infant Jesus, the young Polish 
peasants dress up as various creatures such as the stork and the 
bear and go from house to house singing the traditional carols. 
They are paid with gifts of food. Many celebrations which have 
disappeared or lost their meaning elsewhere may still be found in 
these countries in their original purity.



Chapter 5: THE MIDNIGHT MASS

Mass is said at midnight on Christmas because it is generally 
believed that Christ was born at that hour. There is, of course, no 
historical evidence to uphold this pious belief, which has its 
source in the following reference to Christ's birth in the Book of 
Wisdom (18, 14-15):

"For while all things were in quiet silence, and the night was in the 
midst of her course, Thy almighty word leapt down from heaven 
from Thy royal throne, as a fierce conqueror into the midst of the 
land of destruction."

As the context shows, these words refer to the slaying of the 
firstborn in Egypt; but the medieval theologians applied it as a 
prophetical reference to the Incarnation of the Divine Word. A 
beautiful Latin hymn of the fourth century (Quando noctis 
medium) expresses this common belief of our Lord's birth at 
midnight:

     When the midnight, dark and still, 
     Wrapped in silence vale and hill: 
     God the Son, through Virgin's birth, 
     Following the Father's will, 
     Started life as Man on earth.

Midnight has never been assigned as the official time for the first 
Mass. It is merely prescribed that it be said "in nocte" (during the 
night). Hence in many places the first Mass is celebrated before 
dawn, at four or five in the morning. During the early centuries 
(400-1200) the Roman regulations prescribed that the first Mass 
should be celebrated "ad galli cantum" (when the cock crows), 
which was about three o'clock in the morning.[23] A relic of this 
custom is found among the Spanish-speaking people, who even 
today call the midnight Mass "Misa de Gallo" (Mass of the cock).

Among the French people it is an old custom to hold a joyful 
family gathering and a traditional meal (reveillon) directly after 
midnight Mass. In Spain people promenade on the streets after the 
midnight Mass with torches, tambourines, and guitars, singing and 
greeting each other. In some parts of Germany the figure of the 
Christ Child is solemnly placed in the crib after the first Mass, 
while the people in church sing their ancient carols.

In the church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, the statue of the Divine 
Child is placed on the altar after the first Mass and then carried in 
procession to the crypt, where it is laid on the silver star which 
marks what is believed to be the actual spot of the Lord's birth. 
The Gospel of St. Luke is sung, and when the Deacon comes to the 
words, "she laid him in a manger," the statue is lifted from the 
floor and placed in the rock-hewn crib next to the star.

Another custom connected with midnight Mass is the ringing of 
church bells during the solemn service of "Vespers," which is held 
in many places directly before the midnight service. In America, 
chimes and carillons accompany or replace the bells in many 
churches, ringing out the tunes of familiar carols, especially the 
joyous invitation, "O come, all ye Faithful."

In Austria, Bavaria, and other countries of Central Europe, carols 
are played from the church towers before midnight Mass; the tunes 
of traditional Christmas songs ring out through the stillness of the 
winter night, clear and peaceful, creating an unforgettable 
impression.

In some sections of England, Ireland, and Scotland, a quaint and 
unusually interesting custom was practiced in medieval times. One 
hour before midnight the big bell of the church would begin to toll 
its slow and solemn message of mourning, and it would thus 
continue for the whole hour, as if tolling for a funeral. But at the 
moment of midnight, just as the clock struck twelve, all the bells 
would suddenly ring out in a merry peal of Christmas joy. This 
tolling from eleven to twelve was called "the devil's funeral," for 
according to the old legend, the devil died when Christ was born.



Chapter 6: ANCIENT HYMNS

The word "carol" comes from the Greek word choraulein (choros: 
the dance, aulein: to play the flute), and referred to a dance 
accompanied by the playing of flutes. Such dancing--usually done 
in ring form--was very popular in ancient times among the Greek 
and Roman people. The Romans brought the custom and its name 
to Britain.

In medieval England "carol" meant a ring-dance accompanied by 
singing. The dancers would form a circle and, joining their hands, 
walk in rhythmic dance-step while keeping the form of the circle 
(as our children still do in their "ring-around-a-rosy" game). 
Chaucer describes such a ring-dance in his "Romaunt of the Rose" 
(lines 798-804), using the word "carol" for the dance itself. He 
pictures himself approaching a group of dancing young ladies, and 
one of them "ful curteisly" calls him:

     "What do ye there, beau sire?" quod she; 
     "Come neer, and if it lyke yow 
     To dauncen, daunceth with us now." 
     And I, withoute tarying, 
     Wente into the caroling.

Gradually the meaning of "carol" changed, and the word was 
applied to the song itself. In an English-Latin vocabulary of 1440 a 
synonym for carol would be "song, psalmodium."

A hymn is essentially solemn; a carol, in the modern sense, is 
familiar, playful or festive, but always simple. The distinction 
between hymns and carols is often overlooked and "carol" has 
come to denote all vernacular songs pertaining to Christmas.

The first hymns in honor of the Nativity were written in the fifth 
century, soon after Christmas was fully established as one of the 
great annual feasts. These hymns, written in Latin, increased in 
number as time went on. Some of them were incorporated in the 
Divine Office and are still used at Christmas time in the daily 
prayers of the breviary, while still others are sung by church 
choirs at liturgical services. Many Latin hymns (1200-1700) were 
translated into various languages and have since become popular 
carols.

The early Latin hymns (400-1200) are profound and solemn, and 
dwell exclusively on the supernatural aspects of Christmas. 
Theological in text, they do not concern themselves with the 
human side of the Nativity. A few of the best known early Latin 
hymns are:

Jesus refulsit omnium (Jesus, Light of all the nations), by St. Hilary 
of Poitiers (368).

Corde natus ex Parentis (Of the Father's love begotten), by 
Prudentius (405), a layman, government official of the Roman 
Empire, and great Christian poet.

Agnoscat omne saeculum (Let every age and nation know), by 
Venantius Fortunatus (602), Bishop of Poitiers.

A song of the ancient Greek Church which in English translation 
still survives is the hymn, "O gladsome Light" (Phos hilaron); it is 
used in many churches at Christmas candlelight services.

Other Latin hymns which were later translated and became popular 
carols were:

In hoc anni circulo (In the circle of this year)

Dies est laetitiae (O royal day of holy joy)

Flos e radice Jesse (A spotless rose is growing); this hymn of the 
sixteenth century was set to music, in its present familiar tune, by 
Michael Praetorius (1621), a German priest.

The birthplace of the true Christmas carol was Italy. There, in the 
thirteenth century among the early Franciscans, St. Francis of 
Assisi was the first to introduce the joyous carol spirit which soon 
spread all over Europe. He had a particular devotion and affection 
for the mysteries of the holy childhood of Jesus. His biographer, 
Thomas of Celano (about 1260), says, "The Child Jesus was 
forgotten by the hearts of many. But with the grace of God He was 
resurrected again and recalled to loving memory in those hearts 
through His servant, the Blessed Francis."[24]

St. Francis wrote a beautiful Christmas hymn in Latin (Psalmus in 
Nativitate), but there is no evidence that he composed carols in 
Italian. His companions and spiritual sons, however, the first 
Franciscan friars, contributed a large number of lovely Italian 
Christmas carols. Here is an English-translation of one of these 
thirteenth century Italian carols. The tune has become very 
familiar as the theme on which Handel developed his Pastoral 
Symphony in the Messiah:

     In Bethlehem is born the Holy Child, 
     On hay and straw in the winter wild; 
     O, my heart is full of mirth 
     At Jesus' birth.

From Italy the carol spread quickly to Spain and France, and 
finally all over Europe. In Germany in the fourteenth century a 
great many popular Christmas carols were written largely under 
the inspiration of the Dominican mystics, John Eckhardt (1327), 
John Tauler (1361), and Blessed Henry Suso (1366).

The earliest known English carol was written at the beginning of 
the fifteenth century. It is a lullaby of great simplicity and 
tenderness:

     I saw a sweet, a seemly sight,
     A blissful bird, a blossom bright,
     That mourning made and mirth among: 
     A maiden mother meek and mild
     In cradle keep a knave child           (knave: boy) 
     That softly slept; she sat and sung:
     Lullay, lulla, balow, 
     My bairn, sleep softly now.

These early English carols usually employed both rhyme and 
alliteration. There followed a great number of English Christmas 
poems in the next two centuries, most of them very tender and 
devout, praising the Divine Child and His Virgin Mother.

     Blessed be that lady bright 
     Who bare a child of great might
     Without pain, as it was right, 
     Maid, Mother Mary.



Chapter 7: CAROLS FOR EVERY MOOD

Christmas carols may be divided into many groups and appealing 
classifications, such as nativity carols, prayer carols, mystery 
carols, and so on. To list all of them would fill a volume, but here 
are a few excellent examples for various moods.

Nativity Carols -- This, the largest group, is made up of Christmas 
carols in the strict sense of the word, the main theme being the 
story of the Nativity itself. They reveal the religious feeling which 
the birth of Christ brings to the hearts of men and usually express 
adoration, praise, love, gratitude, contrition, wonder, joy, and 
similar emotions, like this ancient English carol:

     A child is born in Bethlehem; 
     Rejoice, therefore, Jerusalem. 
     Low in the manger lieth He, 
     Whose kingdom without end shall be....
     All glory, Lord, to Thee be done, 
     Now seen in flesh, the Virgin's Son.

A solemn note announcing the wondrous news is sounded in the 
simple hymn "God Eternal" (Boh Predvichniy), a traditional carol of 
the Ukrainian people:

{Musical notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text}

     God Eternal was born.
          From heaven He came; 
     All His people to save
          Was He kindly pleased.

     In Bethlehem was He born,
          Our Christ and our Lord,
     And Master of us all:
          For us was He born.

In contrast is one of the old Spanish (Catalan) carols expressing 
the joy of Christmas in a festive manner (the word foom is an 
imitation of the humming sound of guitars and mandolins):

{Musical notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text.}

     Many feasts the good Lord gave us,
          Sing: foom, foom, foom.
     Summer feasts are better, though;
          But let us praise Him even so:
     For He does our needs remember
          And sent us Christmas in December.
     Foom, foom, foom.
     On December twenty-fifth,
          Sing: foom, foom, foom.
     A little child was born that night,
          So sweet and small, at dawn of light.
     Dark was the stable, cold and bare,
          When blessed Mary bore Him there.
     Foom, foom, foom.

The opposite sentiment--compassion and sweet sadness--is 
expressed in a traditional Slovak carol:

{Musical notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text.}

     It was a night in winter, 
          Man and beast asleep,
     When Jesus, poor and humble, 
          Did His vigil keep. 
     The Lord whom kings and prophets 
          Lovingly foretold, 
     Lies trembling in a stable, 
          Dark and bitter cold. 
     Is this the only welcome, 
          Saviour, at Thy birth? 
     Is loneliness and sadness 
          All you find on earth?

Prayer Carols -- An excellent example of these Christmas songs 
directly addressed to the Holy Child in wonder and admiration is 
the Austrian children's carol, Lied der Kinder zu Bethlehem (Carol 
of the Children of Bethlehem):

     Thou hast come, O Saviour dear, 
     To redeem us; Thou art here: 
     Mother told me so.

     Cold and freezing is the night, 
     But Thy love is warm and bright 
     Like the fire's glow.

     Poor, O Jesus, is Thy home, 
     Winds through all the corners roam; 
     I would not stay here!

     Leave the stable and the hay, 
     Come with me to live and play! 
     Won't you, Jesus dear?

Another beautiful prayer carol is the poem Tu scendi dalle stelle 
(Thou camest from the Heavens), written by Pope Pius IX (1878) 
and sung to a traditional melody:

     Thou camest down, O heaven's King,
          From starry sky,
     And in a cave so poor and cold 
          I see Thee lie.
     I see Thee tremble, blessed God; 
          Why should this be?
     Thy sacrifice, O love Divine, 
          Is all for me.

Mystery Carols -- These carols form a large group of medieval 
Christmas songs delightfully describing all manner of legendary 
events supposed to have happened to the Divine Child. One of the 
most charming English mystery carols is the following old song:[25]

     As Joseph was a-walking,
          He heard an angel sing:
     This night shall be born
          Our heavenly king.

     He neither shall be born
          In housen or in hall, 
     Nor in the place of Paradise,
          But in an ox's stall.

     He neither shall be clothed
          In purple nor in pall,
     But all in fair linen,
          As were babies all.

     He neither shall be rock'd
          In silver nor in gold 
     But in a wooden cradle
          That rocks on the mould.

Shepherd Carols -- These songs flourished in Germany, Austria, 
England, France, Ireland, Italy, Spain, as well as in the Slavic 
nations. They relate the message of the angel, the song of the 
heavenly hosts, the visit of the shepherds to the manger, and often 
describe their prayers and gifts. Many of these carols carry 
refrains imitating shepherds' instruments; for instance this merry 
English carol of the fifteenth century:

     About the field they piped full right, 
     Even about the midst of the night; 
     They saw come down from heaven a light: 
     Tirle, tirle--so merrily 
     The shepherds began to blow.

In another early English carol, the last shepherd in a group, after 
presenting a cap as his gift, speaks this humble prayer:

     This gift, Son, I bring thee is but small,
     And though I come the hindmost of all, 
     When Thou shall them to Thy blisse call: 
     Good Lord, yet think on me! 

Many carols invite the shepherds to hurry and adore the new-born 
Lord, as in this Austrian shepherds' carol:

     Rise, shepherds, though the night is deep,
     Rise from your slumber's dreaming!
     Jesus, the Shepherd, watch does keep,
     In love all men redeeming.
     Hasten to Mary and look for her Child, 
     Come, shepherds, and greet our Saviour mild!

Noels -- The Noels are still another group of carols, of which we 
have many examples both in French and in English. The word 
"Noel" or "Nowell" is generally repeated as a refrain, in the sense of 
"news." Who does not know the familiar carol "The first Noel"? It 
has become a favorite Christmas song among all English-speaking 
people. As an example of the Noel refrain, we quote the closing 
lines of another ancient English carol:

     Noel, noel, noel, 
     Noel sing all we may, 
     Because the King of all kings 
     Was born this blessed day.

Macaronics -- A macaronic is a carol written partly in Latin, partly 
in the vernacular. There are many of these in French, English, and 
German. Here is an English macaronic of the sixteenth century:

     Now make us joy in this feste
     In quo Christus natus est,
     A Patre unigenitus....
     Sing to Him and say welcum,
     Veni Redemptor gentium.

Lullaby Carols -- These songs, as the classification suggests, make 
use of the lullabies of various countries, either picturing the Virgin 
Mary singing to the Holy Child or having the devout worshiper sing 
them directly to the Divine Babe, like this old Austrian carol:

     Thy shining eyes, so blue and light,
     Thy tender cheeks, so soft and bright; 
     I will remain forever Thine, 
     O dearest Son, O child Divine....
          (lullaby humming)

A quaint old carol sung by the nuns at St. Mary's Abbey, Chester, 
England, is a combination of an old Latin hymn (Qui creavit 
caelum), with a lullaby verse after each line. The earliest 
manuscript of this macaronic dates from the beginning of the 
fifteenth century:

     The Lord who created the heavens, 
          Lully lully lu;
     Is born in a stable, 
          Byby byby by,
     The King of all mankind, 
          Lully lully lu.
     Between two animals 
          Byby byby by, 
     Lies the Joy of the world, 
          Lully lully lu, 
     Sweet beyond anything, 
          Byby byby by.[26]

Again there is the endearing Czech lullaby so typical of many 
similar songs among the Slavic nations. It is impossible to render 
in English the charming spirit of the original Czech text:

{Musical notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text.}

     Hajej, nynej, Jesus dear,
     Sleep in peace, and do not fear.
     We shall bundle you to rest,
     Keep you close to our breast
     Hajej, nynej, darling Child,
     Son of Mary, Saviour mild.

Companion Carols -- This is an extremely interesting group of 
songs--mostly German--wherein the singer represents himself as 
accompanying the shepherds, or as taking their place, addressing 
the Child, or Mary and Joseph, in a simple, affectionate manner. 
Often a broad local dialect is used, as in the old Austrian carol 
from the Tyrol, Jetzt hat sich halt aufgetan das himmlische Tor 
(The gates of heaven's glory did spring open suddenly). Here is a 
rollicking, joyous stanza:

     So came we running to the crib,
     I and also you,
     A bee-line into Bethlehem,
     Hopsa, trala loo:
     "O, baby dear, take anything
     Of all the little gifts we bring:
     Have apples or have butter,
     Maybe pears or yellow cheese;
     Or would you rather have some nuts,
     Or plums, or what you please.
     Alleluja, alleluja;
     Alle-, alle-, Alleluja."

Another lively companion carol is the Weihnachtslied der Jager 
(Hunters' Carol) from Austria: 

     Awake, O drowsy hunters,
     Hear the whistles and the horn!
     Get up from lazy slumber,
     For our Saviour Christ is born.
     From the trumpets' jolly playing
     Let the hills and valleys ring,
     Hark, the hunting hounds are baying;
     Go and greet the new-born King!
     Awake from sleep, O hunters:
     It is the morn of Christmas day.
     (Hunting horns): Tri-di-ay-ho-di-ay-ho-dio....

Dance Carols -- Dance carols, usually ring-dances accompanied by 
singing, were greatly favored in medieval times. The altar boys, for 
example, in the Cathedral of Seville, Spain, used to dance before 
the altar on Christmas and other feast days, accompanied by song 
and the sound of castanets. In the Minster of York, England, until 
the end of the sixteenth century, choir boys performed a dance in 
the aisle of the church after morning prayers on Christmas day. In 
France it was customary to dance a bergette (shepherd's dance) in 
churches at Christmas time. Dancing in churches was prohibited 
by an ecclesiastical council at Toledo in 590, but the custom had 
become so much a part of the Christmas festivities that in some 
places dancing survived until the thirteenth and fourteenth 
century, and, in England, right up to the Reformation (in Spain 
even longer).

A famous old English carol from a mystery play pictures Christ as 
announcing the mystical marriage to His "true love"--the Church--
and narrating His acts of love to her:

     Tomorrow shall be my dancing day,
     I would my true love did so chance 
     To see the legend of my play,
     To call my true love to my dance. 
     Sing, oh! my love, oh! my love;
     This have I done for my true love.

     In a manger laid and wrapp'd I was,
     So very poor, this was my chance, 
     Betwixt an ox and a silly poor ass,
     To call my true love to my dance. 
     Sing, oh! my love, oh! my love;
     This have I done for my true love.

Christmas dancing is still practiced in the Scandinavian countries, 
where carols are sung as the people perform a ring-dance around 
the Christmas tree. A popular dance carol is the Swedish Nu ar det 
Jul igen (Now it is Christmas again):

{Musical Notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text.}

     Now Christmas is here again,
     And Christmas is here again,
     And Christmas we'll have till Easter. 
     Then Easter is here again,
     And Easter is here again,
     And Easter we'll have till Christmas. 
     Now this will not be so,
     And this will not be so,
     For in between comes Lenten-fasting.

A traditional Austrian carol invites the shepherds and the faithful 
to dance before the crib:

     Bring your pipes and bring your drum,
     Call the shepherds all to come;
     Hasten quick, no time to lose,
     Don't forget your dancing shoes.
     Frolic we right merrily:
     He will laugh with happy glee,
     Yes, and smile, and we will dance,
     While He claps His tiny hands.

     Jesus dearest, Thee to greet,
     Hasten we with dancing feet.
     When the time will come to die,
     In Thine arms we beg to lie.
     All our sins forgive, we pray, 
     Miserere Domine.
     Grant us then with Thee to dwell, 
     In heaven's bliss, Emmanuel.

Epiphany Carols -- These carols tell the story of the three Magi, 
their journey to Bethlehem, the adoration, the presents offered, 
and other details, including sentiments of prayer and devotion. 
Many of them are like ballads and of considerable length. Here is 
the beginning of an old English Epiphany carol:

     Three kings came out of Indian land
     To see the wondrous Infant bent,
     With rich presents in their hand;
     Straightly a star before them went.
     A wondrous thing it was to see:
     That star was more than other three....

An Epiphany song of deep devotion is the old Portuguese carol Os 
Reis (The Kings):

     Out of the Orient they came ariding
     Three noble kings, of humble heart and mild;
     They came to see the Blessed Lord of Heaven
     Descend to earth, to be a little child.
     Precious gifts of gold and myrrh and incense,
     Bringing God the gifts which God had made:
     Low the kings in homage bowing,
     At the feet of Mary laid.

Cradle-Rocking -- This word comes from the German Kindelwiegen 
(Rocking of the Child), a custom which originated in Germany and 
Austria in the fourteenth century. It became widespread as a 
substitute for the Nativity plays, after they were banned. A priest 
would carry to the altar a cradle with a figure of the Christ Child; 
there the cradle was rocked while the congregation sang and 
prayed. The service ended with the devotional kissing of the Christ 
Child at the altar rail.

During the sixteenth century this custom, too, was forbidden in 
churches, but it survived for a long time as a devotional practice 
in many convents and in private homes. In the Tyrol, girls dressed 
in white carried the cradle from house to house, rocking it and 
singing carols. In other parts of Austria, and in Bavaria, mothers 
would rock the cradle to obtain the favor of having children, or to 
implore the Divine Child for special blessings upon their families. 
The rocking was accompanied by songs written for this particular 
purpose, for instance, this German carol of the sixteenth century:

     Joseph, dearest Joseph mine,
     Help me rock my baby fine! 
     What Gabriel foretold 
     Is now fulfilled, 
     Eia, Eia, 
     The Virgin bore a child
     As the Father's wisdom willed. 
     Eia, Eia. 
     Joseph, dearest Joseph mine, 
     Help me rock my baby fine!

Star Carols -- These songs are sung by young people who go from 
house to house at Epiphany, carrying a pole with the "Star of 
Bethlehem," and impersonating the Magi, reporting the adventures 
of their journey and wishing all a happy and holy Christmas. This 
custom, a simplified form of the ancient Epiphany plays, was 
widespread in England, Holland, France, Austria, and Germany 
from the end of the fourteenth century until the Reformation. It is 
still practiced in Austria, Bavaria (Sternsingen), and the Slavic 
countries.

     We are the three Kings with our star,
     We bring you a story from lands afar: 
     And so, dear people, we say to you-- 
     It might sound strange, but is really true-- 
     That something happened in the Holy Land; 
     We went there, all three, by God's command, 
     And in Bethlehem's stable we found a child: 
     Our new-born Saviour, sweet and mild....

Christmas Yodeling -- Christmas yodeling is an old custom in the 
Austrian Tyrol, where it seems a natural way to honor the Divine 
Child. The mountaineers' song without words conveys deep 
feelings of devotion, love, and affection. This is, of course, the 
genuine yodel, not the modern hillbilly type so familiar to 
American radio fans. True Christmas yodeling is capable of great 
tenderness of voice and melody as the subtle changes from chest 
tones to head tones are delicately made by the yodelers.

They do this before the crib or in the open on mountain peaks 
during the holy season. It was performed in the churches during 
past centuries. Some yodels are based on old traditional tunes; 
others are improvised on the spur of the moment. Often the 
yodeling forms a background as Christmas carols are sung.

Here is an old yodel-carol from the Austrian Tyrol in which singing 
and yodeling alternate; the singing is done by two groups: men 
(representing the shepherds) and women (representing the angels):

{Musical notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text.}

     To Christ our Lord we raise this song, 
          (Yodel): Hol-di-ah-di-ay. 
     Chimes are ringing, angels singing, 
          (Yodel): Hol-di-ah-di-ay.

     The Cherubim and Seraphim 
     Pour out their songs in praise of Him: 
          (Angels): Amen.

     Oh, look here! No, look there! 
     Angels' choirs everywhere: 
          (Yodel): Hol-di-ah-di-ay. 
          (Angels): Alleluja.

Those fortunate enough to have experienced a Tyrolean Christmas 
are forever haunted by the beauty and simplicity of these voices 
coming out of the mountains.



Chapter 8: FAMILIAR HYMNS AND CAROLS

After the Reformation most of the old hymns and carols were no 
longer sung, and consequently forgotten in many countries, until 
their revival in the nineteenth century.

Christmas carols in general were discouraged by the Calvinists, 
who substituted metrical psalms in their place. Carol singing was 
altogether suppressed by the Puritans, for instance. Following the 
restoration of Christmas in England, however, there were 
numerous festive songs in praise of the Feast, but very few 
religious carols. One of the few, however, that has become a 
favorite among English-speaking nations is the ballad, "While 
shepherds watched their flocks by night," written by Nahum Tate 
(1715). Its familiar music was taken from the "Christmas melody" 
of Handel's opera Siroe, and arranged in the present setting by 
Richard Storrs Willis, in 1850.

Even as late as 1823, an English collector of Christmas lore, 
William Hone (1842), wrote in his Ancient Mysteries that carols 
were considered as "something past," and had no place in the 
nineteenth century. The Methodist revival in the eighteenth 
century, however, had inspired a number of modern hymns, first 
used only in Methodist churches, but gradually welcomed among 
all English-speaking people. The best-known of these is "Hark, the 
herald angels sing," written by Charles Wesley. The music was 
adapted from Mendelssohn's Festgesang (written in 1840) by 
William H. Cummings, organist at Waltham Abbey, England, in 
1885.

Another popular English "carol" of the last century is the song 
"Good King Wenceslaus." This is not a Christmas carol in the strict 
sense, but rather the poetic story of a famous miracle ascribed in 
medieval legend to St. Wenceslaus, Martyr, Duke of Bohemia (935). 
The miracle, according to the poem, occurred "on the day of 
Stephen" (December twenty-sixth), and thus became one of the 
English Christmas carols. The tune was originally a sixteenth 
century spring canticle and the words were written by John M. 
Neale (1866).

The carol "Joy to the world! The Lord is come," came from the pen 
of an English poet, Isaac Watts (1748). Lowell Mason (1872) of 
Medfield, Massachusetts, composed the music from tunes found in 
Handel's Messiah. This carol first appeared in print in 1839 and 
has become one of America's favorites.

The Lutherans in Germany wrote new hymns for their own use. 
Among these are some of the best modern carols, such as Martin 
Luther's delightful song, Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her (From 
heaven above I come to you), which he wrote in 1535. Bach 
composed a harmonization for it in his Christmas Oratorio.

Another carol ascribed to Martin Luther, and widely used in 
America, is the beautiful "Away in a manger." It is usually called 
"Luther's cradle hymn," though the words and music were not 
written by him. It might very well have been inspired, however, by 
the second part of the first stanza of Luther's hymn Vom Himmel 
kam der Engel Schar, which starts with the line, "Ein Kindlein zart, 
das liegt dort in der Krippen" (Away there in the manger a little 
Infant lies). The familiar English text is of American origin, very 
likely written in one of the settlements of German Lutherans in 
Pennsylvania. The poem appeared in print in Philadelphia, 1885. 
Since then, forty-one settings have been written for this carol; the 
most popular ones are the tunes composed by James R. Murray 
(who, erroneously, ascribed the authorship of the poem to Luther) 
in 1887, and by William James Kirkpatrick (1921).

Within the past two centuries a number of excellent carols have 
been written in Germany, many being adopted as popular church 
hymns. Some have become favorite songs in other countries. The 
best-known of these are:

O du frohliche...(O, thou joyful Christmas time), a popular carol, 
written by Johann Falk in 1816. The tune was taken from an old 
Sicilian Madonna-hymn in Latin, O Sanctissima.

O Tannenbaum (O Christmas Tree), an early nineteenth century 
carol, is familiar in this country as the tune to which the words of 
Maryland, My Maryland are set.

Ihr Kinderlein, kommet (O come, all ye children), written by 
Christoph von Schmid (1854) and sung to a tune composed by 
Johann A. P. Schulz (1800), has become the favorite children's 
carol in Germany and is now frequently heard in churches in this 
country.

The first American carol was written by the famous missionary of 
the Huron Indians, saint and martyr, John de Brebeuf, S.J. (1649), 
who labored among the Hurons from 1626 until he was captured 
and slowly tortured to death by the savage Iroquois who brutally 
attacked and destroyed the Huron mission in 1649 and 1650.

Father Brebeuf wrote in the Huron language the Christmas hymn 
Jesous Ahatonnia (Jesus is born), which he adapted from a 
sixteenth century French folk song. This hymn was preserved by 
the Hurons who escaped the devastating attacks of the Iroquois 
and were later settled by their missionaries in a reservation at 
Loretto, near Quebec. There Father Etienne de Villeneuve recorded 
the words of the hymn; they were found among his papers after his 
death (1794) and later published with a French translation.

In recent years Brebeuf's hymn has been re-introduced into the 
treasury of American Christmas carols. J. E. Middleton, of Toronto, 
wrote a free English translation to fit the ancient French melody. 
The music was arranged by Edith Lovell Thomas, music director at 
the church in Radburn, New Jersey. Here is the second stanza of 
Brebeuf's hymn in the original Huron language and the English 
translation. (The Hurons have no M. Whenever it occurred in 
foreign words, the missionaries substituted for it the French 
diphthong ou, as in the name of the Blessed Virgin, which was 
written "Ouarie" and pronounced "Warie" as in the first word of the 
third line in the following Huron text.)

     Aloki ekwatatennonten shekwachiendaen 
     Iontonk ontatiande ndio sen tsatonnharonnion 
     Ouarie onnawakueton ndio sen tsatonnharonnion 
     Iesous ahatonnia!

     O, harken to the angels' word, 
     Do not decline 
     To heed the message which you heard: 
     The Child Divine, 
     As they proclaim, has come this morn
     Of Mary pure. Let us adore. 
     Jesus is born.

A great number of beautiful American carols were introduced in 
the last century, inspired not only by the Methodist revival but 
also as a result of the widespread renascence of Christmas 
customs. These American carols are quite different from the 
average English Christmas songs during the past centuries because 
they reflect a religious spirit, while most early English carols 
praise only the external pleasures of feasting, reveling, and 
general good will, without direct reference to the Nativity of 
Christ.

"It came upon the midnight clear" was written by Edmund H. Sears 
(1876), a Unitarian minister of Weston, Massachusetts, and set to 
music by Richard S. Willis (1900), a journalist and editor in Detroit 
(in his youth, a personal friend of Mendelssohn).

One of the most beloved of American carols is the famous "O little 
town of Bethlehem" written by Phillips Brooks (1893), well-known 
former rector of Trinity church (Episcopal) in Boston, and later 
Episcopal Bishop of Massachusetts. He visited the Holy Land, and 
the impression made on him by the Christ Child's birthplace 
inspired him to write this poem three years after his return to Holy 
Trinity church in Philadelphia, in 1865, where he was then 
stationed. Louis H. Redner (1908), the organist there and teacher 
in the church school, wrote the tune. It was first sung by the 
children of Holy Trinity Sunday school, on Christmas 1868.

"We three kings of Orient are" was written and set to music in 
1857, by John Henry Hopkins Jr. (1891), an Episcopalian minister. 
It was published in 1883 and has been popular with children ever 
since.

Another famous American carol is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's 
poem entitled "Christmas Bells" ("I heard the bells on Christmas 
Day"). He wrote it for Christmas 1863, and the poem reflects the 
horrors of the Civil War which had afflicted his own family, his 
son, a lieutenant in the army, having been seriously wounded.

     Then from each black, accursed mouth
     The cannon thundered in the South, 
     And with the sound 
     The carols drowned 
     Of peace on earth, good will to men!

     And in despair I bowed my head: 
     "There is no peace on earth," I said, 
     "For hate is strong 
     And mocks the song 
     Of peace on earth, good will to men!"

     Then pealed the bells more loud and deep: 
     "God is not dead, nor doth He sleep!
     The Wrong shall fail, 
     The Right prevail,
     With peace on earth, good will to men!"

The tune used for Longfellow's poem is called "Waltham" and was 
composed by the English organist, John Baptist Calkin (1905).

Other familiar carols in this country include: "Angels we have 
heard on high," most probably a translation of an old French or 
Flemish antiphon-hymn of the sixteenth century. (An antiphon-
hymn is a free poetic translation, in the vernacular, of one or more 
antiphon verses in liturgical texts, like the Divine Office of the 
breviary, or the texts used in the Mass and at Vespers.) This 
particular hymn was probably inspired by the antiphons of the 
Lauds in the Divine Office of Christmas day. The present version 
of the English text was written by Earl Marlatt, Dean of the School 
of Theology at Boston University, in 1937; the arrangement for the 
"Gloria" was made by Edward Shippen Barnes, in 1937.

A startling example of nineteenth century American folk-music 
from the Kentucky mountains, is the song, "Christ was born in 
Bethlehem, and Mary was his niece." Another popular one, "The 
snow lay on the ground," is of uncertain origin. The melody was 
taken from an old Italian pifferari (pipers') melody. One of the 
favorites among many Negro contributions to American Christmas 
music is "Rise up, shepherd, an' foller."

The well-known Christmas song "O Holy Night" is of French origin. 
Adolphe Charles Adam (1856), Professor at the Paris Conservatory 
of Music, wrote the tune to a poem (Cantique de Noel) of M. 
Cappeau de Roquemaure. The English translation was made by 
John Sullivan Dwight (1893).

Despite the devoted research of musical scholars the origin of the 
beloved Christmas hymn Adeste Fideles (O Come, All Ye Faithful) is 
still shrouded in mystery. The original Latin poem is sometimes 
ascribed to St. Bonaventure (1274), a Franciscan priest, later 
Archbishop and Cardinal. However, the original manuscripts, 
containing text and tune, date from the eighteenth century and are 
signed by John Francis Wade (1786), a music dealer of the English 
Catholic colony at Douay, France. Marcus Antonius de Fonseca 
(Portogallo), chapel-master to the king of Portugal (1830), has also 
been mentioned as composer of the music. This tune is reported to 
have been sung at the Portuguese embassy chapel in London, at 
the end of the eighteenth century. Dr. Frederick Oakely (1880), an 
Anglican minister and later Catholic priest, wrote the English 
version of the text in 1841.

More recent contributions include Gesu Bambino, words by 
Frederick Marten and music by Pietro Yon (1943), organist and 
choir-master of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York; it is 
contrapuntal, in the pastoral manner, against the Adeste Fideles 
melody. Another favorite is "The world's desire" by G. K. 
Chesterton.

In Austria--especially its Alpine provinces--many parishes had, and 
some still retain, their local poets who continue to add new songs 
to the old treasury. In little towns and on the farms of the Alpine 
sections, men and women of "singing families," and the rural 
choirs are continually improvising words and music like minstrels 
of old. These simple folk have a native instinct for music and 
poetry. Many of them play instruments (violin, flute, zither, 
guitar), and improvise Christmas songs as they gather round the 
hearth. Any student of Christmas lore will find in Austria and 
Bavaria a rich treasury of popular carols, ancient and modern, 
hidden away in little country places. Most of them as yet are 
unknown to the world in general, though the famous Trapp singers 
have brought many of them to this country and they are now 
included in many Christmas programs here.

One such familiar Austrian carol, written by a parish priest in the 
small town of Oberndorf, near Salzburg, in 1818, is the familiar 
Stille Nacht, Heilige Nacht (Silent Night, Holy Night). It had been 
hidden among the manuscripts of the church choir for some time, 
until it was found by a music-lover who brought it to the Rainers, a 
family of singers, in the Tyrol (Zillertal). They began to sing it at 
their concerts and it gradually became widely used in Austria and 
Germany. On their American concert tour (1839-1843) they 
brought the new carol with them and sang it before large 
audiences.[27] Within a few years it conquered the hearts of the 
nation. Not only in America but all over the world "Silent Night" 
has become the most beloved of all carols, a truly international 
Christmas anthem.

Here is the story of its origin: On Christmas eve, 1818, the parish 
priest of Oberndorf, Joseph Mohr, was notified that repairs of the 
church organ (which had broken down a few days before) could 
not be finished in time for midnight Mass. This was a great 
disappointment to the priest and his flock, since the music for the 
High Mass which the choir had prepared could not be sung. To 
lessen the disappointment, Father Mohr decided to surprise his 
people with a new Christmas song. He went to work immediately 
and wrote three stanzas of a carol, the first stanza of which was 
inspired by the sight of a baby whose ailing mother he had visited 
earlier in the day. Having finished the text, he brought it to his 
friend, Franz Gruber, teacher and organist in the nearby village of 
Arnsdorf. Gruber composed the tune within a few hours. At 
midnight Mass, the hushed congregation in the little church heard 
the first performance of Stille Nacht.

Today a modest monument in Oberndorf perpetuates the memory 
of the men who gave us "Silent Night": the priest-poet, Joseph Mohr 
(1848), and the composer, Franz Gruber (1863).

Stille Nacht was first performed to the accompaniment of a guitar. 
The composer later wrote an orchestration for strings, French 
horn, and organ. Father Mohr called it Weihnachtslied (Christmas 
song). It was first published at Leipzig, in 1834. The commonly 
used English translation appeared in a Methodist hymnal in 
Boston, in 1871, and had been compiled from various preceding 
translations. (The name of the compiler is unknown.)

In Latin countries, especially in rural sections of Spain and South 
America, many towns have their traditional Christmas carols which 
have now become part of American Christmas lore in certain 
sections of the country. These are carols of childlike simplicity, 
often humorous in parts, but always devout and tender. The local 
carol of the town Ocumare de la Costa (Venezuela), a jewel of 
popular Christmas music, is a good illustration (El Nino Jesus ha 
nacido ya):

{Musical notation cannot be displayed in ASCII text.}

     The little child Jesus is already here, 
     The Kings and the shepherds adore without fear. 
     There is much to behold for the wise and the fool: 
     Saint Joseph, the Virgin; the ox and the mule. 
          Let us adore the little child 
          With pleasure and happy cheer; 
          Let us adore as the Magi do 
          As the Magi adore Him here.[28]

The first mention of Christmas caroling in America is recorded by 
Father Bartholomew Vimont, S.J., in his report on the state of the 
Huron mission, dated Quebec, October 1, 1645. In it he described 
the zeal and devotion which the Christian Hurons displayed in 
celebrating Christmas. Speaking of the Indians at Mackinac (now 
Mackinaw, Michigan), one of the most remote missions of New 
France, he says: "The savages have a particular devotion for the 
night that was enlightened by the birth of the Son of God. There 
was not one who refused to fast on the day that preceded it. They 
built a small chapel of cedar and fir branches in honor of the 
manger of the infant Jesus. They wished to perform some penance 
for better receiving Him into their hearts on that holy day, and 
even those who were at a distance of two days' journey met at a 
given place to sing hymns in honor of the new-born Child....Neither 
the inconvenience of the snow nor the severity of the cold could 
stifle the ardor of their devotion."[29]

This ancient custom of singing carols in public was revived in 
America at the beginning of this century. In Boston, the first 
organized Christmas eve caroling took place on the streets of 
Beacon Hill in 1908 and continues to this day, many families 
holding open house. In St. Louis it was started in 1909 by groups 
of young people who sang their carols before every house with a 
lighted candle in its windows. Organized groups of carol-singers 
may now be found in thousands of American cities and towns.

In French Canada, the caroling is performed either a few days 
before Christmas or on New Year's eve, by young men and women 
dressed in old-style country costumes (La guignolee), who go from 
house to house, singing and collecting gifts of food and clothes for 
the poor of the town.

In Hungary, in Poland, and other Slavic countries singers go from 
house to house carrying a huge star, lighted inside. After their 
carols are sung, some of the groups enact scenes from the 
Nativity, the visit of the Magi, the court of King Herod, etc.; this 
custom is called Kolednicy in Polish, Bethlehem in Hungarian. 
National groups in this country have done much to preserve some 
of these customs during the holiday season. Again, it would fill a 
small volume to include all of them.



Chapter 9: NATIVITY PLAYS

In the early centuries, the story of the Nativity was dramatized in 
churches within the framework of so-called "miracle plays." These 
semi-dramatic services consisted in pious representations of the 
"mystery" of Christ's birth, accompanied by song, prayer, and 
other acts of devotion. (Mystery, in this connection, is the religious 
term for any episode of Christ's life related in the Gospels.) In 
those days, of course, books or pictures were not available to most 
of the common people, so these plays served not only as acts of 
worship but also as a means of religious instruction. They soon 
became very popular in all Christian countries. A typical Nativity 
play given in the Cathedral of Rouen (France) in the twelfth 
century may be described in this way:

Behind a curtain, in the sanctuary of the church, a picture of Mary 
with the Child was placed in an enclosure representing the stable 
of Bethlehem. A procession of the canons of the cathedral, vested 
in tunics and impersonating the shepherds, entered the church 
through the main door. Inside the church the procession halted 
while a choir boy from the gallery above announced to them the 
Nativity in the words of the angel. The canons responded singing, 
"Eamus usque Bethlehem" (Let us go to Bethlehem) and proceeded 
through the main aisle toward the altar reciting the hymn, Pax in 
terris nunciatur. As they passed through the gate of the sanctuary, 
a boys' choir began to sing "Gloria in excelsis Deo" (Glory to God in 
the highest), to which the priests answered, "Et in terra pax 
hominibus bonae voluntatis" (and on earth peace to men of good 
will).

Within the sanctuary two other priests in dalmatics met them, 
inquiring: "Quem quaeritis?" (Whom do you seek?). They answered, 
"Salvatorem qui est Christus Dominus" (Our Saviour who is Christ 
the Lord). The two priests then drew back the curtain and sang, 
"Adest hic parvulus cum Maria Matre sua...Alleluia" (The little 
Child is here with Mary his mother...Alleluia); and pointing to 
the picture of Mary they added, "Ecce Virgo" (Behold the Virgin).

The priests, proceeding to the enclosure, bowed reverently, 
venerated the Child, and saluted the mother with prayer and 
songs. Then singing "Alleluia" they returned in procession to their 
choir stalls. Immediately following this dialogue, midnight Mass 
was celebrated.[30]

There is a touching note of childlike piety and devotion in these 
early church plays, revealing the deeply religious manner in which 
plays were used to help in Divine service. From such beginnings 
grew that bewildering number of mystery plays which flourished 
in all parts of Europe from the eleventh to the fifteenth century. As 
time went on the plays became more elaborate and covered more 
details of the Biblical story. Fictional and legendary scenes were 
added and the congregation was allowed to take part.

As a natural but unfortunate result of these changes, many abuses 
appeared such as irreverence, comedy, improper behavior of 
clergy and laymen, sensational effects, and similar aberrations. 
The authorities of the Church protested against such scandal; but 
things had gone too far for correction and change. Under the 
pretext of tradition the warnings and admonitions of the Bishops 
were ignored or neglected. After all efforts had failed to restore the 
church plays to their original character, the whole institution was 
gradually suppressed and finally forbidden during the fourteenth 
and fifteenth centuries and miracle plays were no longer 
performed in churches.

This banishment, however, brought about an indirect blessing. In 
order to survive outside the church, the plays were purged of their 
abuses and were able now to employ many dramatic effects that 
formerly had been impossible in church plays. There subsequently 
developed a rich growth of religious drama which flourished up to 
the Reformation and continued to flourish long after in many 
countries. The schools of the Jesuit Fathers were centers of this 
dramatic movement until the order was suppressed (1773).[31]

The restoration of Christmas customs in the last century also 
brought about a revival of Nativity plays--not dramatic 
performances of the long and tiresome seventeenth and eighteenth 
century "morality plays," but simple, devotional plays of the 
earlier type. In fact, these old plays, in simplified form and with 
certain restrictions, had never ceased to exist in some sections of 
Germany and Austria, even in churches.

It was from Germany that the Nativity pageant found its way into 
America. As far as is known, the first such play in this country was 
performed in the German Catholic church of the Holy Trinity in 
Boston, Massachusetts, Christmas, 1851.[32] The children of the 
parish, dressed as Oriental shepherds, carrying bundles of food, 
linen, and other gifts, proceeded in solemn procession to the crib 
in front of the altar, singing Christmas carols. They honored the 
Divine Child by offering their presents, reciting prayers and 
chanting hymns. The parish priest accepted the offerings, which 
were afterwards distributed to the poor. The children in their 
Oriental costumes, their hands folded devoutly, left the church in 
a street procession after the service. This performance attracted 
such attention and admiration from people of all faiths in Boston 
that it had to be repeated twice during Christmas week upon the 
urgent request of both Catholics and Protestants from all over the 
city who were anxious to witness this "new pageant, so charming, 
so edifying." This procession at Holy Trinity Church, Boston, has 
been held every year since then, though of late in simplified form 
without costumes.

Gradually the Nativity plays became a cherished part of American 
Christmas celebrations in both Catholic and Protestant church 
halls, in many of their organizations and societies, and more 
recently in public schools. These modern Christmas plays are 
without exception short, simple in structure, deeply devout and 
reverent in character, like the Nativity plays created a thousand 
years ago.

A peculiar type of Nativity play is the German Herbergsuchen 
(Search for an inn). It is a dramatic rendition of the Holy Family's 
fruitless efforts to find a shelter in Bethlehem. Joseph and Mary, 
tired and weary, knock at door after door, humbly asking for a 
place to stay. Realizing that they are poor, the owners refuse their 
request with harsh words, until they finally decide to seek shelter 
in a stable.

Usually the whole performance is sung and often it is followed by 
a "happy ending" showing a tableau of the cave with the Nativity 
scene. There are scores of different versions according to the 
various songs and sketches provided in the text. Here is one 
stanza of a traditional Austrian Herbergsuchen (Wer klopfet an?):

     Who's knocking at my door?
          Two people, poor and low.
     What are you asking for?
          That you may mercy show;
          We are, oh sir, in sorry plight,
          O grant us shelter here tonight.
     You ask in vain.
          We beg a place to rest--
     It's "no" again!
          You will be greatly blessed.
     I told you, no! You cannot stay,
     Get out of here, and go your way!

A similar custom is the Spanish Posada (the Inn), traditional in 
South American countries, especially Mexico. On an evening 
between December sixteenth and twenty-fourth, several 
neighboring families gather in one house where they prepare a 
shrine, handsomely decorated, and beside it a crib with all its 
traditional figures, but the manger is empty. At night a priest 
comes to the house, reads prayers and burns incense before the 
pictures of Mary and Joseph. Then a procession is formed, the two 
images carried at the head. The group moves through the house, 
reciting a litany and chanting hymns, until it reaches a room on 
the top floor where a carol is sung in which St. Joseph begs for a 
shelter. The people stationed within the room respond, refusing St. 
Joseph's request as part of the carol. The procession then proceeds 
to the place where the altar has been prepared. Pictures of Joseph 
and Mary are put in the shrine, venerated with prayer and incense, 
and all those present are blessed by the priest. Thus the religious 
part of the Posada ends. Then comes a gay party for the adults 
consisting of games and refreshments, while the children are 
entertained with the Pinata. This is a fragile clay jar, suspended 
from the ceiling and filled with candy and other goodies. The 
object is to break the jar with a stick so the contents spill and 
everybody rushes pell-mell for some of its treasures.

Another favorite mystery play was the "Office of the Star," a 
pageant of the Magi's visit on the feast of the Epiphany. Like the 
Nativity play, this originated as a part of the liturgical service in 
church (in the eleventh century, probably in France) and soon 
spread into all European countries. However, from a devout 
religious ceremony it degenerated into a boisterous affair, due to 
the appearance of King Herod, who was introduced into the play as 
a raging maniac, throwing a wooden spear around, beating clergy 
and laity alike, creating havoc in both sanctuary and church by his 
antics.

Because of these abuses, the "Office of the Star" was soon 
abolished as a part of the liturgical service. In its place appeared 
very early the "Feast of the Star," an Epiphany play performed 
partly outside the church, partly inside, but in no way connected 
with the Mass or the liturgical Office. One of the earliest reports of 
this pageant is in Milan, 1336, where it was directed by the 
Franciscan friars as an inspiring religious ceremony. The "Three 
Kings," crowned and richly clad, appeared on horseback with a 
large retinue, bearing golden cups filled with myrrh, incense, and 
gold. They rode in state through the streets of the city to the 
church of St. Eustorgius where they dismounted, entered in solemn 
procession, and offered their gifts at the Christmas crib.[33]

These Epiphany plays spread quickly through all of Europe; the 
interest in them was heightened because the Crusaders had 
brought back tales and Oriental customs from the Holy Land. They 
were finally prohibited as church plays after the Reformation and 
completely discarded as religious pageants in many countries, 
degenerating into wild Dragon plays, "Thre Kynges" puppet shows, 
and other demonstrations. In more religious communities they 
kept their original character, somewhat simplified like the 
Sternsingen in Germany and the festival of Los tres Rejes (The three 
kings) among Spanish-speaking nations.

The first description of an Epiphany pageant in America appears in 
the "Jesuit Relations" of 1679. These Relations are annual reports 
which the Superiors of the Order at Quebec compiled from letters 
of the Jesuit missionaries who labored among the Indians of New 
France (Canada). In the Relation of 1679, there is a delightful 
report by Father Jean Enjalran, missionary of St. Ignace, a remote 
outpost of the Canadian Mission on the shores of Lake Huron (now 
St. Ignace, Michigan). At that time, St. Ignace consisted of a 
mission station and settlements of various Huron and Algonquin 
tribes.

In his report Father Enjalran tells of an Epiphany pageant and 
procession held by the Indians on January 6, 1679. Here is his 
description, with some minor omissions:

"All the savages, but especially the Hurons, professed a special 
devotion for the all-endearing mystery of the birth of our Lord 
Jesus Christ. They themselves entreated the priest, long before the 
feast day, to celebrate it in a most solemn manner. They sent their 
children to seek materials for constructing a grotto for the Nativity 
scene. A little girl gathered a beautiful sort of grass, and said that 
she had done it in the hope that the little infant Jesus might be 
laid upon that grass.

"All the Christians went to confession; and those to whom 
permission was given to receive Holy Communion, did so very 
devoutly at midnight Mass. The grotto of the Nativity was 
frequently visited and the Indians exclaimed excitedly and prayed 
in childlike fashion as they looked on the scene. Then they asked 
the Father if they might carry the infant Jesus through their 
village.

"They were very anxious to imitate what in other ages had been 
done by the three strange great Chiefs, who came to adore Jesus 
Christ in the manger. All the Hurons, Christians and non-Christians 
alike, divided themselves into three companies according to the 
different clans that made up their village; and, after choosing their 
chiefs, one for each clan, they furnished them with wampum 
(porcelain), to offer to the infant Jesus. Each one adorned himself 
as handsomely as he could. Each of the chiefs held a scepter in his 
hand to which the wampum was fastened, and each wore a gaudy 
headdress in the form of a crown.

"The three companies took up different positions. The sound of a 
trumpet was the signal for marching. In Indian file the first 
company started to march, proceeded by a star which was fastened 
to a large standard of sky-blue color. The second company then 
demanded the object of their journey; and, on learning it, joined 
them. The third company followed and all three groups marched 
into the church, the star remaining at the entrance.

"The three chiefs first prostrated themselves and laid their 
scepters at the feet of the infant Jesus in the cradle. Next they 
offered their congratulations and presents to the Saviour. They 
made a public protestation of the submission and obedience which 
they desired to render Him; asked for the grace of faith for those 
who possessed it not, and protection for their whole tribe and for 
all that land; and, in conclusion, entreated Him to approve their 
bringing Him into the village, where He should be Master.

"The priest promised to carry the little statue of the Divine Infant. 
He now took it from the grotto, out of the cradle, and carried it on 
a fine linen cloth. Everyone seemed deeply moved, and pressed 
forward in the crowd, to get a better view of it. The Hurons left the 
church in the same order in which they had come. The Father 
walked behind them, carrying the statue, preceded by two 
Frenchmen who bore a large standard on which was represented 
the infant Jesus and Mary. All the Algonquins--and especially the 
Christians, who had been invited to assist--filed solemnly along.

"They marched toward the Huron village, chanting the litanies of 
the Virgin they had been taught and proceeded to a cabin, where 
they had prepared a lodging for the Infant as appropriate as they 
could make it. There they offered thanksgiving and prayers.

"Afterwards the Child was carried back to the church and replaced 
in the grotto. The Christian Algonquins were then invited by the 
Christian Hurons to a feast, at which they exhorted each other to 
obey Jesus Christ, who was the true Master of the world."[34]

It is hard to realize that all this happened in America as long ago 
as 1679.



Chapter 10: THE CHRISTMAS CRIB

The building of the Christmas crib, or creche, is a very old custom 
in most European countries. Within the past century it has been 
adopted by many different groups and churches in this country. 
The child in the manger and various other representations of the 
story of Bethlehem have been used in church services from the 
first centuries. The earliest known picture is the Nativity scene 
(about A.D. 380) which served as a wall decoration in the burial 
chamber of a Christian family, discovered in St. Sebastian's 
Catacombs, Rome, 1877.

The crib in its present form and its use outside the church is 
credited to St. Francis of Assisi. He made the Christmas crib 
popular through his famous celebration at Greccio (Italy) on 
Christmas eve, 1223, with a Bethlehem scene including live 
animals. His biographer, Thomas de Celano, writes:

"It should be recorded and held in reverent memory what Blessed 
Francis did near the town of Greccio, on the feast day of the 
Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ, three years before his glorious 
death. In that town lived a certain man by the name of John 
(Messer Giovanni Velitta) who stood in high esteem, and whose life 
was even better than his reputation. Blessed Francis loved him 
with a special affection because, being very noble and much 
honored, he despised the nobility of the flesh and strove after the 
nobility of the soul.

Blessed Francis often saw this man. He now called him about two 
weeks before Christmas and said to him: "If you desire that we 
should celebrate this year's Christmas together at Greccio, go 
quickly and prepare what I tell you; for I want to enact the memory 
of the Infant who was born at Bethlehem, and how He was deprived 
of all the comforts babies enjoy; how He was bedded in the manger 
on hay, between an ass and an ox. For once I want to see all this 
with my own eyes." When that good and faithful man had heard 
this, he departed quickly and prepared in the above mentioned 
place everything that the Saint had told him.

The joyful day approached. The brethren [Franciscan friars] were 
called from many communities. The men and women of the 
neighborhood, as best they could, prepared candles and torches to 
brighten the night. Finally the Saint of God arrived, found 
everything prepared, saw it and rejoiced. The crib was made ready, 
hay was brought, the ox and ass were led to the spot....Greccio 
became a new Bethlehem. The night was made radiant like the day, 
filling men and animals with joy. The crowds drew near and 
rejoiced in the novelty of the celebration. Their voices resounded 
from the woods, and the rocky cliff echoed the jubilant outburst. 
As they sang in praise of God the whole night rang with exultation. 
The Saint of God stood before the crib, overcome with devotion 
and wondrous joy. A solemn Mass was sung at the crib.

The Saint dressed in deacon's vestments, for a deacon he was [out 
of humility, St. Francis never became a priest, remaining a deacon 
all his life], sang the gospel. Then he preached a delightful sermon 
to the people who stood around him, speaking about the nativity 
of the poor King and the humble town of Bethlehem....And 
whenever he mentioned the Child of Bethlehem or the name of 
Jesus, he seemed to lick his lips as if he would happily taste and 
swallow the sweetness of that word.[35]

Since the time of St. Francis, the Christmas crib has been a familiar 
sight in Christian homes all over the world. Farmers in the 
mountain provinces of Central Europe spend the long winter 
evenings of Advent repairing and enlarging their beautiful cribs, 
which are sometimes made up of hundreds of figures, filling a 
whole room. In many towns of Italy, Germany, and Austria, as well 
as in South America, there are clubs where children learn to build 
cribs of various styles and shapes, using their imagination, a 
veritable manual training course in fashioning a Christmas crib. In 
Vienna, for instance, there were more than two hundred such cribs, 
built by boys in one parish, just before World War II. The 
youngsters were allowed free rein and there were some utterly 
charming and tenderly fashioned cribs as a result. No two were 
identical, and there was much originality displayed.

Among the German sects which kept the custom of Christmas cribs 
even after the Reformation, were the Herrenhuter, usually called 
Moravians. One small group of Moravian missionaries came to 
America and founded the town of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, on 
Christmas eve, 1741. The inhabitants of Bethlehem, and later 
those of other Moravian settlements in Pennsylvania, brought with 
them the custom of the crib. They called it "putz" (from the 
German putzen: decorate) and included not only the scene of the 
Nativity but in addition all the charming details of a German 
Krippe (crib): dozens, sometimes hundreds of figures, fanciful 
landscaping, waterfalls, houses and fences, bridges, fountains, 
villages, gardens and groves. The custom of "putzing" and "putz-
visiting" has been preserved among them up to this day. It has 
remained, however, a local practice among German-Americans, 
especially in Pennsylvania, and has not become a general part of 
Christmas customs in this country.

The animals in the crib--usually an ass and ox-- although not 
mentioned in the Bible are traditionally now part of the picture. St. 
Francis was following tradition when he had these animals placed 
near the manger. As early as the fourth century they were 
represented in pictures of the Nativity. The custom originated 
because of two passages in the Old Testament that were applied to 
the birth of Christ: the words of Isaiah (1, 3), "The ox knoweth his 
owner, and the ass his master's crib; but Israel hath not known me 
and my people hath not understood"; and the verse of Habakkuk 
(3, 2) in the Itala version, "In the midst of two animals Thou shalt 
become known."

One of the most endearing of crib festivities is the famous custom 
of the Children's Sermon at the church of Ara Coeli on the 
Capitoline Hill in Rome. (Incidentally, it is said that while standing 
on the top steps of this church, surveying Rome, the historian 
Gibbon was inspired to write his "Decline and Fall of the Roman 
Empire.") Preserved in this church is a beautiful statue of the Holy 
Child, carved from wood, wrapped in linen and adorned with a 
crown. This Bambino is highly venerated. (Charles Dickens 
describes it in his Italian sketches.) All through the Christmas 
season it lies in the church crib and is visited by thousands. On a 
platform in front of the crib little boys and girls between five and 
twelve recite short sermons and poems in honor of the infant 
Saviour. Adults crowd around and listen with rapt attention as the 
little ones preach to their elders. Visitors to Rome during the 
Christmas season count this as one of their most precious 
experiences because the simplicity of the little Italian children 
touches their hearts.

On the octave of Epiphany a great procession proceeds from the 
church of Ara Coeli. The statue of the Bambino is borne to the 
open space at the top of the steps which lead up to the Capitoline 
Hill, and there the priest, raising the statue high, solemnly blesses 
the Holy City and all its children.

The Christmas crib was brought to America by many nationalities 
and is now generally accepted as part of the Christmas celebration 
in most churches.



Chapter 11: SYMBOLIC LIGHTS AND FIRES

Those of the Jewish faith annually celebrate in December the 
anniversary of the Re-dedication of the Temple as a "feast of 
lights" (Hanukkah). Christians have made the Nativity their feast of 
lights in honor of Him who was born as a Light to illuminate the 
nations (Luke 2, 32).

In medieval times it was customary to represent Christ the Lord by 
a burning candle. This custom is still preserved in the liturgy of 
the Church, as for instance, the Easter candle, the last candle at 
the Tenebrae services of Holy Week. At Christmas, a large candle 
symbolizing the Lord used to be set up in the homes of the faithful 
on the eve of the Feast. It was placed in the center of a laurel 
wreath and kept burning through the Holy Night, and was lit, 
thereafter, every night during the holy season.

The custom of the Christmas candle is still kept in its original 
form in some countries. In Ireland, the mother or the father of the 
household lights a holly-bedecked large candle on Christmas eve 
while the entire family prays for all its dear ones, both living and 
departed. Among the Slavic nations (Poles, Ukrainians, Russians) 
the large Christmas candle is put on the table after it has been 
blessed by the priest in church. The Ukrainians do not use 
candlesticks but stick the candle in a loaf of bread.

In many sections of South America the candle is placed in a paper 
lantern with Christmas symbols and pictures of the Nativity 
decorating its sides. In England and France the Christmas light 
often consisted of three individual candles molded together at the 
base, in honor of the holy Trinity. In Germany the Christmas 
candle used to be placed on top of a wooden pole decorated with 
evergreens (Lichtstock), or sometimes many smaller candles were 
distributed on the shelves of a wooden structure made in the form 
of a pyramid, adorned with fir twigs or laurel, draped with 
glittering tinsel (Weihnachtspyramide). (During the seventeenth 
and eighteenth century this pyramid was replaced by our 
Christmas tree.)

In addition to the main candle, it later became a custom to set up 
other smaller candles all through the house in honor of the Feast:

     Then be ye glad, good people,
     This night of all the year,
     And light ye up your candles:
     His Star is shining near.

The customs of placing lighted candles in the windows at 
Christmas was brought to America by the Irish. The historical 
background of this custom is interesting. When religion was 
suppressed through Ireland during the English persecution, the 
people had no churches. Priests hid in forests and caves and 
secretly visited the farms and homes to say Mass there during the 
night. It was the dearest wish of every Irish family that at least 
once in their lifetimes a priest would arrive at Christmas to 
celebrate the Divine sacrifice during Holy Night. For this grace 
they hoped and prayed all through the year. When Christmas came, 
they left their doors unlocked and placed burning candles in the 
windows so that any priest who happened to be in the vicinity 
could be welcomed and guided to their home through the dark 
night. Silently he entered through the unlatched door and was 
received by the devout with fervent prayers of gratitude and tears 
of happiness that their home was to become a church during Holy 
Night.

To justify this practice in the eyes of the English soldiers, the Irish 
people used to explain: "We burn the candles and keep the doors 
unlocked, that Mary and Joseph, looking for a place to stay, will 
find their way to our home and be welcomed with open doors and 
open hearts." The English authorities, finding this Irish 
"superstition" harmless, did not bother to suppress it. The candles 
in the windows have always remained a cherished practice of the 
Irish, although many of them have long since forgotten the earlier 
significance. The custom was brought to this country in the early 
nineteenth century and spread throughout the land, so much so 
that in recent years electric candles and lights of all kinds are 
used in homes and in public squares during the Christmas season. 
Business districts as well as suburban streets spend much time 
and money to make their decorations gay and bright with lights.

An inspiring and colorful sight are the Christmas fires burned on 
the peaks of the Alps in Central Europe. Like flaming stars they 
hang in the dark heavens during Holy Night, burning brightly and 
silently, as the farmers from around the mountain-sides walk 
through the winter night down into the valley for midnight Mass. 
Each person carries a lantern, swinging it to and fro; the night 
seems alive with hundreds of glow-worms converging toward the 
great light at the foot of the mountain--the parish church--shining 
and sparkling, a "Feast of Lights," indeed. No one who has 
witnessed this scene on Christmas eve in Austria, Bavaria, or 
Switzerland will ever forget it.

A seasonable Christmas in England and Northern Europe is a cold 
one. In past centuries it was even colder than it is now because the 
"old Christmas"--before Pope Gregory XIII corrected the Julian 
calendar in the sixteenth century--came eleven days later, on 
January fifth of the present calendar.

At a time when coal and other modern heating fuels were 
unknown, the firewood to be burned during Holy Night and on 
Christmas assumed special significance. A huge log was selected 
and brought to the house with great ceremony in preparation for 
the ceremony. It was called the "Christmas log" or "Yule log," as 
Herrick sings:

     Come, bring with a noise, 
     My merrie, merrie boyes, 
     The Christmas Log to the firing....

In some places the Yule log was the whole trunk of a tree, carefully 
selected on the preceding feast of Candlemas and stored away to 
dry out during the summer. Many popular customs and ceremonies 
were connected with the Christmas log. The unburnt parts, for 
instance, were put aside and preserved because the new log of 
next year had to be kindled with wood from the old one. The main 
purpose of the log, however, was to blaze and burn on the open 
hearth during Holy Night and on Christmas day.

In spite of modern heating today the Yule log has survived in 
many homes in England and America as an old and cherished 
Christmas tradition, though actually it originated among the 
Germanic tribes as a pagan celebration for the Yule-god Thor at 
the time of the solstice.



Chapter 12: THE CHRISTMAS TREE

The Christmas tree is the main feature of modern Christmas 
celebrations. It is completely Christian in origin and historians 
have never been able to connect it in any way with ancient 
Germanic or Asiatic mythology. Surprising as it may seem, the use 
of Christmas trees is a fairly recent custom in all countries outside 
of Germany, and even in Germany it attained its immense 
popularity as recently as the beginning of the last century, 
although there is some evidence of its use in certain sections of 
Germany much earlier.

The origin of the Christmas tree goes back to the medieval German 
mystery plays. One of the most popular "mysteries" was the 
Paradise play, representing the creation of man, the sin of Adam 
and Eve and their expulsion from Paradise. It usually closed with 
the consoling promise of the coming Saviour and with a reference 
to His incarnation. This made the Paradise play a favorite pageant 
for Advent, and its closing scenes used to lead directly into the 
story of Bethlehem.

These plays were performed either in the open, on the large 
squares in front of churches, or inside the house of God. The 
garden of Eden was indicated by a fir tree hung with apples; it 
represented both the "Tree of Life" and the "Tree of discernment of 
good and evil" which stood in the center of Paradise (Genesis 2, 9). 
When the pageant was performed in church, the Paradeisbaum 
(tree of Paradise) was usually surrounded by lighted candles. 
Inside this ring of lights the play was enacted.

After the suppression of the mystery plays in churches, the 
Paradise tree, the only symbolic object of the play, found its way 
into the homes of the faithful, especially since many plays had 
interpreted it as a symbol of the coming Saviour. Following this 
symbolism, in the fifteenth century the custom developed of 
decorating the Paradise tree, already bearing apples, with small 
white wafers representing the Holy Eucharist; thus, in legendary 
usage, the tree which had borne the fruit of sin for Adam and Eve, 
now bore the saving fruit of the Sacrament, symbolized by the 
wafers. These wafers were later replaced by little pieces of pastry 
cut in the shape of stars, angels, hearts, flowers, and bells. And 
finally, other cookies were introduced bearing the shape of men, 
birds, dogs, roosters, lions, and other animals. Tradition, however, 
called for the latter being cut from brown dough while the first 
group was made of white dough.

Up to the middle of the seventeenth century the Christbaum (as 
the tree is called in German) had no lights. The Christmas candles, 
generally used in medieval times, were placed on the Christmas 
pyramid made of graduated wooden shelves. As time went on, 
however, the tree replaced the pyramid in its function of 
representing Christ as the Light of the world: the candles and 
glittering decorations were transferred from the pyramid to the 
tree; and thus the modern Christmas tree was finally evolved with 
its familiar features: lights, candy canes, glass balls (remember 
puffed wheat and cranberries strung like a necklace?), and many 
other colorful features. In Europe cookies, sweets, and oranges 
were, and still are, more often used. A star in some form usually 
decorates the top of the tree.

A reminder of the origin of our modern Christmas tree may still be 
found in sections of Bavaria where fir branches and little trees, 
decorated with lights, apples, and tinsel, are still called Paradeis.

It seems fairly certain that the original home of the Christmas tree 
is the left bank of the upper Rhine in Germany where this 
transformation of the tree took place during the fifteenth century. 
The first mention of the tree as it is now known (but still without 
lights) dates from the Alsace (1521). A detailed description is 
given in a manuscript from Strasbourg (1605). At that time the tree 
was widely accepted in those parts. In the course of the following 
centuries it slowly became popular in other parts of Germany. It 
wasn't until the beginning of the nineteenth century, however, that 
it spread rapidly and grew into a widespread German custom, from 
whence it was taken up by the Slavic people in Eastern Europe.[36]

The Christmas tree was introduced into France in 1837, when 
Princess Helen of Mecklenburg brought it to Paris after her 
marriage to the Duke of Orleans. It was brought to England around 
the middle of the last century when Prince Albert of Saxony, the 
husband of Queen Victoria, had a tree set up at Windsor Castle in 
1841. From the royal court the fashion spread, first among the 
nobility, then among the people in general, until by the second 
half of the last century it was very much a part of the English 
Christmas celebration.

The tree came to America as a cherished companion of the German 
immigrants. The first wave of German immigration, about 1700, 
brought thousands of Protestant farmers from the Rhine provinces 
(Palatinate) who, after much suffering and many adventures in the 
colony of New York, finally settled in western Pennsylvania. The 
descendants of these early immigrants still inhabit the Lebanon 
valley, keeping most of their ancient customs.

The second wave of German immigration began about 1830. These 
people, made up of both Catholic and Protestant groups, settled in 
New York, New England, on the farms of Ohio and Wisconsin, and 
other parts of America. Through them the Christmas tree was 
brought to the attention of their neighbors, and soon became a 
much admired and familiar sight in all the churches of German 
settlements and in the homes of German-Americans everywhere.

In spite of the official suppression of Christmas in New England, 
the custom of the Christmas tree spread. The fact that the royalty 
in England had adopted it, did much to make it fashionable in the 
homes of Americans of English descent. Wherever new settlements 
sprang up in the middle and far West, the founders always brought 
with them the Christmas tree custom from the East.

The tree which in 1850 had been called "a new German toy" by 
Charles Dickens, was termed "old-fashioned" by President Harrison 
in 1891 when, on December twenty-second of that year, speaking 
to reporters about the Christmas celebration at the White House, 
he said, "And we shall have an old-fashioned Christmas tree for the 
grandchildren upstairs."[37]

America has added one new feature to the traditional use of the 
tree. It was here that the custom originated of setting up lighted 
Christmas trees in public places, just as outdoor cribs, European in 
character, are to be found in many large cities now at Christmas 
time, the most noted of all the famous one each year on Boston 
Common.

The originating of the Christmas tree is sometimes ascribed to 
Martin Luther, although we have no historical evidence of any kind 
for this. Luther might have used the tree, but its origin, 
symbolism, and name go far beyond him into earlier German 
history.

In America many places claim the honor of putting up the first 
Christmas tree. As a matter of fact, German immigrants, especially 
those from the upper Rhine, are most likely to have set up the first 
Christmas trees in America, in their own homes as early as 1710. 
The Christmas tree became fairly well known to the general public 
here about the middle of the nineteenth century through German 
Catholics and Lutherans. It soon caught everybody's fancy and 
spread like wildfire, and of course now is the most beloved 
popular feature of the Christmas season.



Chapter 13: CHRISTMAS PLANTS AND FLOWERS

The custom of decorating homes on festive days is world-wide. It 
is neither pagan nor Christian in itself but rather a natural 
expression of joy mingled with solemnity. It has been practiced in 
all parts of the world for thousands of years. When the early 
Christians, however, began to use laurel branches for festive 
decoration, the Church discouraged the idea because the display 
of laurel had been associated with the feast of the Saturnalia and 
other pagan festivals of the Roman Empire. The great writer, 
Tertullian (third century), says in his treatise on idolatry: "Let 
those who have no Light burn their (pagan) lamps daily. Let those 
who face the fire of hell affix laurels to their door-posts....You are 
a light of the world, a tree ever green; if you have renounced the 
pagan temple, make not your home such a temple!"[38]

When Tertullian wrote this warning, he certainly was unaware that 
the words he chose gave the Christians further motive for 
expressing in symbols his phrase: "You are a light, a tree ever 
green."

The Church gradually accepted and blessed the practice of 
decorating both the house of God and the Christian home with 
plants and flowers on the feast of the Lord's Nativity. Pope St. 
Gregory I (604) in a letter to St. Augustine of Canterbury advises 
him to permit, and even to encourage, harmless popular customs 
which in themselves are not pagan but natural, and could be given 
Christian interpretation.[39]

The plants used traditionally as Christmas decorations are mostly 
evergreens: first, because they were the only ones available in the 
winter season; secondly, because from ancient times the 
evergreens have been symbolic of eternal life.

In this country the use of plants and flowers to adorn churches, 
homes, communities, and schools during the sacred season has 
long been a popular custom. Fir, spruce, holly, and yew are the 
plants used on the continent of Europe to deck the homes at 
Christmas time. In England, holly, laurel, mistletoe, and rosemary 
are favorite Christmas decorations. In Mexico and this country, the 
beautiful poinsettia plant is often used at Christmas.

The Mistletoe -- In many American homes, especially among 
families originating in the British Isles, a cluster of mistletoe is 
hung, shimmering with silver pearls and pale green leaves, above 
the door, on the walls, or from the ceiling of the room.

The mistletoe was a sacred plant in the pagan religion of the 
Druids in Britain. It was believed to have all sorts of miraculous 
qualities: the power of healing diseases, making poisons harmless, 
giving fertility to humans and animals, protection from witchcraft, 
banning evil spirits, bringing good luck and great blessings. In 
fact, it was considered so sacred that even enemies who happened 
to meet beneath a mistletoe in the forest would lay down their 
arms, exchange a friendly greeting, and keep a truce until the 
following day. From this old custom grew the practice of 
suspending mistletoe over a doorway or in a room as a token of 
good will and peace to all comers. A kiss under the mistletoe was 
interpreted as a sincere pledge of love and a promise of marriage 
and, at the same time, it was an omen of happiness, good fortune, 
fertility, and long life to the lovers who sealed and made known 
their engagement by a kiss beneath the sacred plant.

How did it happen that the mistletoe became a Christmas 
decoration and a Christmas symbol? After Britain was converted 
from paganism to Christianity, the Bishops did not allow the 
mistletoe to be used in churches because it had been the main 
symbol of a pagan religion. Even to this day mistletoe is rarely 
used as a decoration for altars. There was, however, one exception. 
At the Cathedral of York, at one period before the Reformation, a 
large bundle of mistletoe was brought into the sanctuary each year 
at Christmas and solemnly placed on the altar by a priest. In this 
rite the plant which the Druids had called "All-heal" was used as a 
symbol of Christ, the Divine Healer of nations.

The people of England then adopted the mistletoe as a decoration 
for their homes at Christmas. Its old, pagan religious meaning was 
soon forgotten but some of the other meanings and customs have 
survived: the kiss under the mistletoe; the token of good will and 
friendship; the omen of happiness and good luck; and the new 
religious significance:

     The mistletoe bough at our Christmas board
     Shall hang, to the honor of Christ the Lord: 
     For He is the evergreen tree of Life....

The Holly -- This plant has always been a significant part of 
Christmas decorations, here and in the British Isles. When the 
earth turns brown and cold, the holly with its shiny green leaves 
and bright red berry seems to lend itself naturally to Christmas 
decoration, as described in this traditional English carol:

     The holly and the ivy, 
     When they are both full grown, 
     Of all the trees that are in the woods,
     The holly bears the crown.

To the early Christians in Northern Europe this plant was a symbol 
of the burning thorn bush of Moses, and the flaming love for God 
that filled Mary's heart. Its prickly points, and red berries 
resembling drops of blood, also reminded the faithful that the 
Divine Child was born to wear a crown of thorns.

Not only is holly hung at doors and windows, on tables and walls, 
but its green leaves and red berries have become the universal 
symbol of Christmas, adorning greeting cards, gift tags and labels, 
gift boxes, and wrapping paper at Christmas time.

Medieval superstition in England endowed holly with a special 
power against witchcraft; unmarried women were told to fasten a 
sprig of holly to their beds at Christmas, to guard them throughout 
the year from being turned into witches by the Evil One; (In 
Germany, branches of holly that had been used as Christmas 
decoration in church, were brought home and superstitiously kept 
as charms against lightning.) Another English superstition claimed 
that holly brought good luck to men, and that ivy brought it to 
women. The holly, therefore, is always referred to as "he" while the 
ivy is the distaff plant:

     Holly and his merry men they dance and sing, 
     Ivy and her maidens weep, and hands wring.

Holly is a symbol of Christmas joy and merriment. Its appearance 
in the homes of old England opened the season of feasting and 
good cheer, often with this traditional English carol so familiar in 
this country:

     Deck the hall with boughs of holly, 
     Tra la la, etc.; 
     'Tis the season to be jolly, 
     Tra la la, etc.

In this country, the native holly has almost disappeared because of 
the selfishness of careless holly hunters at Christmas time. What is 
used here now is of the European variety with larger leaves and 
berries and commercially grown by farmers in this country. The 
holly tree comes into its full fruition after about eighteen years. 
Many farmers in holly-growing sections plant cuttings in the 
month of August after the birth of their first child, hoping that a 
profitable crop will be ready just in time to meet college expenses 
years later.

The California holly (Toyon) grows along the Pacific coast and has 
extra brilliant flaming red-colored berries which are placed in 
Christmas wreaths of evergreen for decorations.

The Ivy -- In pagan Rome the ivy was the badge of the wine-god 
Bacchus and displayed as a symbol of unrestrained drinking and 
feasting. For this reason it was later banished from Christian 
homes. The old tradition in England ruled that ivy should be 
banned from the inside of homes and should be allowed to grow 
only on the outside:

     Holly standeth in the hall, 
     Fair to behold;
     Ivy stands without the door, 
     She is full sore a-cold.

Accordingly, the use of ivy as a Christmas decoration was opposed 
by most people in medieval England; on the continent of Europe it 
was hardly ever used for that purpose. But a symbolism of human 
weakness clinging to Divine strength was frequently ascribed to 
the ivy, and this prompted some poets in old England to defend 
ivy as a decoration at Christmas time:

     Ivy, chief of trees it is,
     The most worthy in all the town; 
     He that saith other, does amiss:
     Worthy is she to bear the crown.

Another reason for excluding ivy was its association with death, 
because it was generally grown in cemeteries, as Charles Dickens 
observed:

     Creeping where no life is seen, 
     A rare old plant is the ivy green.

However, the delicate little ground ivy, "which groweth in a sweet 
and shadowed place," was at all times a favorite plant of the 
English home; it used to be kept in pots and displayed around the 
house not only at Christmas but all year round as well. Many of the 
pioneer settlers coming to the shores of the New World brought 
pots of such ground ivy with them. And it is really the most 
popular indoor as well as outdoor plant in most parts of the 
country today.

The Laurel (Bay) -- As an ancient symbol of triumph, the laurel is 
aptly used for Christmas decorations, to proclaim the victory over 
sin and death which Christ's birth signifies. In Friesland, Germany, 
an old carol was sung by the men representing the Magi on 
Epiphany day:

     From afar we come, and our staves 
     Are adorned with laurel;
     To seek Jesus, the King, the Saviour great, 
     And to bring Him laurel.

Bay was greatly cherished as a Christmas plant in bygone 
centuries. "Rosemary and baies that are most faire were stuck 
about the houses and the churches at Christmas time," says the 
poet Robert Herrick. In fact, laurel was the first plant used as 
Christmas decoration; the early Christians at Rome adorned their 
homes with it, in celebration of the Nativity of Christ.

The modern custom of hanging laurel wreaths on the outside of 
doors as a friendly greeting to our fellowmen comes from an old 
Roman practice. The wreath was their symbol of victory, glory, joy, 
and celebration. The Christmas wreath did not come to America 
from the continent of Europe, since it was hardly used there in 
past centuries (except in the form of the Advent wreath). It seems 
to have been introduced here by the Irish immigrants and 
gradually became part of the American Christmas scene.

The Rosemary -- This delicate plant has been connected with 
Christmas since time immemorial. According to an old legend it 
was honored by God in reward for the humble service which it 
offered to Mary and her Child. On the way to Egypt, so the 
charming story goes, Mary washed the tiny garments of Jesus and 
spread them over a rosemary bush to dry in the sun. Since then the 
rosemary has delighted man by its delicate fragrance.

In other medieval legends this plant is pictured as a great 
protection and help against evil spirits, especially if it has been 
used in church as a decoration on Christmas day.

The Cherry -- It is customary among the Czechs and Slovaks, also 
in the Tyrol and some other sections of Central Europe, to break a 
branch off a cherry tree at the beginning of Advent, place it in a 
pot of water in the kitchen and keep it in warm air. The twig then 
would burst into blossom at Christmas time and made a very 
festive decoration. Such cherry branches, brought to flowering at 
Christmas, were considered omens of good luck. For instance, the 
girl who had tended the twig would find a good husband within the 
year, if she succeeded in producing the bloom exactly on 
Christmas eve.

The famous English "Cherry tree carol" is based on a legendary 
service performed by the tree in connection with the Christmas 
story. According to this legend, Joseph is an elderly man walking 
with his young bride "in a garden gay, where cherries were growing 
on every spray." (In the original Oriental legend these trees are 
date palms.) When Mary asks him for cherries, being hungry for 
some of the fruit, he refuses with unfriendly words because he is 
troubled by doubts about the angel's message. But his doubts are 
quickly dispelled by a small miracle:

     O! then bespoke Jesus,
     All in his mother's womb,
     "Go to the tree, Mary,
     And it shall bow down;

     "Go to the tree, Mary,
     And it shall bow to thee,
     And the highest branch of all
     Shall bow down to Mary's knee.

     "And she shall gather cherries
     By one, by two, by three. 
     "Now you can see, Joseph,
     Those cherries were for me."

     O! eat your cherries, Mary,
     O! eat your cherries now. 
     O! eat your cherries, Mary,
     That grow on the bough.

Whereupon Joseph asks pardon for his unbecoming suspicions, as 
an angel appears to him, announcing that the heavenly King will 
soon be born.

The Poinsettia -- This native plant of Central America is now widely 
used in churches and homes at Christmas, because the flaming 
star of its red bracts resembles the star of Bethlehem. It is a very 
popular Christmas decoration in this country, really the favorite 
plant of the season. The poinsettia was named after Dr. Joel 
Roberts Poinsett (1851), who served as United States Ambassador 
to Mexico. Upon his return, in 1829, he brought this flower with 
him to his home in South Carolina, where it flourished.

The people of Mexico call the poinsettia the "flower of the Holy 
Night." A charming Mexican legend explains its origin: On a 
Christmas eve, long ago, a poor little boy went to church in great 
sadness, because he had no gift to bring to the Holy Child. He 
dared not enter the church, and, kneeling humbly on the ground 
outside the house of God, prayed fervently and assured our Lord 
with tears, how much he desired to offer Him some lovely present--
"But I am very poor and dread to approach You with empty hands." 
When he finally rose from his knees, he saw springing up at his 
feet a green plant with gorgeous blooms of dazzling red. His 
prayer had been answered; he broke some of the beautiful twigs 
from the plant and joyously entered the church to lay his gift at 
the feet of the Christ Child. Since then the plant has spread over 
the whole country; it blooms every year at Christmas time with 
such glorious abandon that men are filled with the true holiday 
spirit at the mere sight of the Christmas flower, symbolic of the 
Saviour's birth.



Chapter 14: BREADS AND PASTRIES

In pre-Christian times the winter solstice was celebrated for ten or 
twelve days in December (Julmond: the month of Yule). One of the 
main features of the celebration consisted in rituals expressing 
reverence for the gift of bread, thereby winning the favor of the 
fieldgods for the new year of planting and reaping. Agricultural 
fertility cults were universal among the ancient nations of Europe. 
Invocations, display of wheat in the homes, baking of special 
kinds of bread and cakes, symbolic actions to foster the fertility of 
the soil, honoring the spirits of ancestors who had handed down 
the fields and pastures, these customs were all part of their ritual.

With the coming of Christianity many of these practices were 
discontinued; many others, however, were never relinquished and 
were more or less incorporated into the celebration of Christmas, 
usually assuming Christian symbolism.

This dual origin of many Christmas customs has been preserved 
most clearly in the agricultural nations of Eastern Europe, 
especially among the Ukrainians, whose country still is regarded 
as the "bread basket" of Europe. To a Ukrainian peasant Christmas 
was, and still is, what Thanksgiving day is to us, a day on which he 
offers thanks to God for a good harvest and invokes Divine 
blessing for his fields in the coming year.

On Christmas eve, the father of the Ukrainian family brings into 
the home a sheaf of wheat from the barn, placing it upright in a 
comer of the room. This sheaf is called "Forefather," symbolizing 
those forefathers of the nation who first tilled the land. The floor 
is strewn with hay and straw; there is hay even on the table, on 
which two loaves of fragrant white bread are placed, one on top of 
the other, with a Christmas candle stuck in the upper loaf. The 
first and most important dish of the solemn dinner on Christmas 
eve is Kutya, consisting of boiled wheat with honey and 
poppyseed. The head of the family, after blessing this dish, takes a 
spoonful of it and throws it against the ceiling--an ancient symbol 
of thanksgiving which has survived from the pre-Christian era.

Indeed some of the Ukrainian Christmas songs contain a 
Christianized version of the ancient fertility cult. In one of these 
canticles, God and some Saints visit a peasant village, and as they 
sit around the table drinking wine and honey, they notice that St. 
Elias is missing. St. Peter is sent to look for him; he finds Elias in 
the fields where he is sowing wheat.

In Poland, sheaves of wheat or grain from the harvest are placed in 
the four corners of the principal room on Christmas eve. Straw is 
spread on the floor and laid on the dining table, and a clean white 
cloth put over it. The table, bearing the Christmas candle and 
dishes with traditional pastry, is placed in front of the family 
shrine--usually a statue of Christ or the Blessed Virgin.

Meanwhile the children watch impatiently for the appearance of 
the first star in the frosty sky. Its light is the signal for the 
beginning of the vigilia, the meatless Christmas eve dinner. The 
Christmas candle is lit and all other lights are extinguished as the 
whole family kneels in prayer before the shrine. Then the Father 
breaks the Christmas wafers (Oplatek), which have been blessed by 
the priest, and distributes them, kissing each member of the 
family and wishing them a joyful feast. The dinner consists of 
Polish dishes (barzch, pierogi), various kinds of fish, nuts, plums, 
and Christmas pastry (strucle, makowninki). A lovely custom is the 
setting of a special place for anyone who might knock at the door 
that night.

After the meal the candles on the Christmas tree are lit and the 
children receive their gifts. The rest of the evening is spent in 
prayer and carol singing in preparation for midnight Mass.

In most countries the Christmas cakes which were baked on the 
eve of the feast and eaten during the season were said to bring 
special blessings of good luck and health. In Ireland, England, and 
Scotland a cake was baked on Christmas eve for every member of 
the household. These were usually circular in shape and flavored 
with caraway seeds. If anyone's cake happened to break, it was an 
omen of bad luck. The Irish people have a Gaelic name for 
Christmas eve, Oidhche na ceapairi, which means "Night of 
Cakes."[40] In Germany and France, Christmas cakes were often 
adorned with the figure of the Holy Child, made of sugar. The 
Greek Christmas cakes had a cross on top, and one such cake was 
left on the table during Holy Night in the hope that Christ Himself 
would come and eat it. The Christmas loaf (Pain calendeau) is still 
made in southern France; it is quartered crosswise and is eaten 
only after the first quarter has been given to some poor person. In 
central and eastern Germany a special bread is made of wheat 
flour, butter, sugar, almond, and raisins (Christstollen). Slavic 
nations (Poles, Russians, Lithuanians, Rumanians, etc.) prepare in 
addition to their Christmas loaves thin wafers of white flour which 
are eaten (often with syrup or honey) before the main meal on 
Christmas eve. The Lithuanians call these wafers "bread of the 
angels." Various scenes of the Nativity are imprinted on them, and 
the head of the household distributes them among his family, as a 
symbol of love and peace. In Russia, St. Nicholas (Kolya) puts 
wheat cakes on the windowsills during Holy Night. Among the 
nations of Central Europe fruit bread (Kletzenbrot) and fruit cake 
are favorite Christmas dishes. In France and French Canada no one 
dreams of going to a store to buy bread during the Christmas 
season, for the mothers bake a large batch of small round loaves in 
honor of the Feast (pain d'habitant). Even more abundant and 
varied are the many forms of Christmas pastries, cookies, and 
sweets which have survived to the present and, in some countries, 
as a substitute for the ancient cakes. In Germany, Austria, 
Switzerland, and other regions of Central Europe, the Christmas 
pastry (Weihnachtsgeback) consists of various forms, different in 
shape and composition. Christmas tree pastry (Christbaumgeback) 
is made of a white dough and cut in the shape of stars, angels, 
flowers, and animals. It was, and still is, hung on the tree and 
eaten by the children when the tree is taken down. The honey 
pastry (Honigbackwerk) is made of flour, honey, ginger and other 
spices and it is a favorite Christmas dish all over Germany 
(Lebkuchen, Pfefferkuchen, Pfeffernusse). Another pastry, baked 
very hard, are the South German Springerle, cookies rectangular in 
shape with pictures stamped on them such as flowers, animals, 
dancing figures, and many Christmas symbols.

The Scandinavians bake their Christmas pastry in the form of a 
boar or he-goat (Juleber, Julgat). It is served at Christmas with the 
other dishes but not eaten until January nineteenth, the feast day 
of St. Canute (Martyr, King of Denmark, died 1086). A familiar 
Spanish Christmas sweet is the dulces de almendra, a pastry made 
of sugar, flour, egg-white, and almonds. Similar almond pastries 
are used during this season in Portugal and Italy. Central and 
South American people enjoy an unusual pastry, bunuelos baked of 
white flour, very crisp and brittle, and eaten with syrup or honey. 
In Venezuela the hallaca is the national Christmas dish, a pie of 
chopped meat wrapped up in a crust of corn pastry. The French 
and French Canadians have doughnuts (beignes) made of a special 
dough, also fruit cake and white cream-fudge (sucre a la creme) 
and a cake of whole wheat, brown sugar, and dates (carreaux aux 
dattes). The Lithuanian people eat little balls of hard and dry 
pastry (Kukuliai) which are softened in plain water.

A delightful custom, still practiced in parts of England and France, 
is the "Kings' Cake" baked on Epiphany day, in honor of the Magi 
(January 6). A coin is put into the dough before baking, and the 
person who finds it in his piece is the "king." In French Canada this 
cake (gateau des Rois) contains a bean and a pea, making the 
respective finders "king" and "queen" of the feast. Robert Herrick's 
"Twelfe Night" refers to this old custom:

     Now, now the mirth comes 
     With the cake full of plums 
     Where Bean's the King of the sport here, 
     Beside we must know, 
     The Pea also 
     Must revell, as Queen, in the Court here.

In recent years there have been many excellent foreign cookbooks 
published so that housewives of all nationalities can now bake and 
cook as their forefathers did in the old country. Many of these 
cakes and pastries are now an important part of Christmas in this 
country.



Chapter 15: THE CHRISTMAS DINNER

Christmas was, and in many countries still is, preceded by a day of 
fasting and abstinence, in preparation for the Lord's Nativity. But 
on Christmas day, ever since the beginning of Christianity, a great 
feast was held. In the course of time naturally each nation 
developed its own treasured customs in connection with the 
Christmas dinner.

The traditional American Christmas meal is English in origin 
although the English "Christmas bird" (usually goose or capon) was 
supplanted by our turkey and cranberry sauce. The boisterous 
Christmas dinners of the English nobility and gentry in ancient 
times, with many guests, gluttonous eating and drinking, have 
never found their way into the New World and have long since 
disappeared in Britain.

An example of English Christmas feasting at the royal table in 
ancient times is described in a famous poem by Whistlecraft:

     They served up salmon, venison and wild boars,
     By hundreds, and by dozens and by scores. 
     Hogsheads of honey, kilderkins of mustard, 
     Muttons, and fatted beeves, and bacon swine: 
     Herons and bitterns, peacocks, swan and bustard, 
     Teal, mallard, pigeons, widgeons, and, in fine, 
     Plum-puddings, pancakes, apple-pies and custard, 
     And therewithal they drank good Gascon wine, 
     With mead, and ale, and cider of our own....

The reckless profusion of those feasts, however, had one 
redeeming feature: the poor were generously treated at Christmas, 
when incredible amounts of meat were distributed among them.

The typical English Christmas dinner in medieval times, in castle 
and manor, started with the serving of the "Boar's Head," which 
was brought in solemn procession by the chief cook, accompanied 
by waiters, pages, and minstrels, to the tune of the old carol, "The 
Boar's Head in Hand I Bear..." Then followed other courses in 
bewildering variety. Here is the bill-of-fare for such a dinner, held 
about 1560, which consisted of seventeen main dishes: roast boar 
with mustard; a boiled capon; a boiled haunch of beef; roasted 
beef tongue; a roasted pig; mince pie; roast beef; a roasted goose; 
a roasted swan; roast turkey; venison; pasty of venison; a kid with 
a pudding in the belly; olive pie; a couple of roasted capons; 
custard. Sixteen other dishes contained salads, fricassees, pastry 
and sweets, not to mention the accessories like bread, herbs, 
carrots, parsnips, turnips, and celery. (Potatoes were not 
introduced until 1586 and did not come into general use until 
about one hundred years later.)

On Christmas, 1770, the Hon. Sir Henry Grey, Baronet, of London, 
ordered a pie containing two bushels of flour, twenty pounds of 
butter, four geese, two turkeys, two rabbits, four wild ducks, two 
woodcocks, six snipes, four partridges, two beef tongues, seven 
blackbirds, and six pigeons. The pie was nine feet in 
circumference, resting in a case on wheels, and had to be pushed 
into the dining room by two men.[41] It would be difficult to 
imagine which was more obnoxious, the sight of it or the taste of 
the mixture. Such extravagance was the fashion in Britain for 
centuries.

Among the common people, a large bird was the standard fare at 
Christmas dinners: goose, capon, bustard, or chicken; and, after 
1550, turkey, which had been brought from Mexico to Europe at 
the beginning of the sixteenth century and was soon domesticated 
in Spain, France, and England.

Early Christmas dinners in this country, so modest and simple 
compared to the English fare, bring home the fact that it was not 
the royalty and nobility, but the poor, common people who 
brought their English habits and customs to the colonies. The good 
Lord even had turkeys ready for them when they reached the 
shores of the New World, although the wild, North American bird 
was a dry, tough, and cheerless morsel in the early days. But the 
Americans stood by it, righteously refusing to return to the flesh-
pots of old British Christmas dinners, even when they later could 
afford it. Instead, they developed and improved the strain of the 
native bird until it became the meaty delicacy of today, the golden 
center of our Christmas meal.

Christmas, the feast of good cheer, has always been a favorite 
occasion for drinking, especially so in recent times, where hard 
liquor often replaces the sweet ciders and light wines of more 
temperate days. The Latin nations enjoyed, and still do, their 
customary wine with the Christmas meal. In northern Europe, beer 
was a favorite drink; in England, ale.

A Christmas drink peculiar to the English was the "wassail," always 
served in a large bowl. The word comes from the old Saxon and 
used to be a drinker's greeting (Was haile: your health). It usually 
consisted of ale, roasted apples, eggs, sugar, nutmeg, cloves, and 
ginger, drunk while hot. From this custom of drinking the wassail, 
the English derived the word "wassailing" for any kind of 
Christmas revels which were accompanied by drinking.

It was not until the eighteenth century that the mild wassail drink 
was gradually supplanted by a punch made up of stronger spirits. 
The punch bowl finally replaced the wassail bowl and is now a 
popular feature of Christmas in this country.

In a lovely old European custom on December twenty-seventh, St. 
John's Day, the Church bestows a special blessing on wine. This is 
an old rite in honor of St. John the Evangelist who, according to 
legend, drank a glass of poisoned wine without suffering harm. 
Anyone may have wine blessed by a priest on St. John's Day with a 
special blessing.[42] In times past, and even today in some 
countries, this wine is taken with the mutual wish: "Drink the love 
of St. John!" meaning the love of God and men of which St. John is 
such an eloquent herald in his sacred writings.



Chapter 16: THE BATTLE OF THE MINCE PIE

Mince pie on the Christmas table is an old English custom. When 
the Puritans in New England tried to supplant Christmas with 
Thanksgiving (and almost succeeded for a time), they also 
transferred the English Christmas dinner of "a bird" and mince pie 
to their new feast day. Thus the good Puritans, very much against 
their intentions, have provided us, by a turn of events, with a 
second Christmas dinner each year (Thanksgiving and Christmas).

The British had various kinds of "minc'd pie" long before it became 
a part of the Christmas meal. The Christmas pie was born when the 
Crusaders, returning from the Holy Land, brought along all sorts of 
Oriental spices. So, it followed that the Lord's Nativity had to be 
celebrated with a pie containing the spices from His native land.

What concoctions the mince pies were in those early days! A recipe 
for a Christmas pie, made in 1394, mentions the following 
ingredients: a pheasant, a hare, a capon, two partridges, two 
pigeons, and two rabbits; their meat separated from the bones, to 
be chopped into a fine hash; add the livers and hearts of all these 
animals, also two kidneys of sheep; add little meat balls of beef, 
with eggs; add pickled mushrooms, salt, pepper, vinegar, and 
various spices, pour into it the broth in which the bones were 
cooked. Put all into a crust of good pastry and bake....Wonder 
indeed, that, according to an old English saying, "the devil dares 
not show himself in Cornwall at Christmas time lest he should be 
baked in a pie."[43]

A Christmas mince pie of the seventeenth century, according to 
Robert Herrick, was filled with beef tongues, chopped chicken, 
eggs, raisins, orange and lemon peelings, sugar, and various 
spices. In this recipe it is not difficult to recognize the basic 
pattern of modern mince pie.

Another national Christmas dish in England was (and still is with 
variations) the famous plum pudding. It was bound up in a cloth, 
boiled on Christmas morning, and served with great ceremony, 
often saturated with alcohol and set aflame while being borne into 
the dining room, as Dickens describes so vividly in his "Christmas 
Carol." The name dates from the end of the seventeenth century. 
Before that time it was called "hackin" because its ingredients were 
hacked or chopped before being mixed into the pie.

Of historical interest is the fact that in England, before the 
Reformation, a peculiar Christmas custom had grown and rapidly 
spread through the country. In honor of the Saviour's humble 
birth, the mince pies were made in oblong form, representing the 
manger; and sometimes, in the slight depression on top of the pie 
was placed a little figure of the child Jesus. Thus the pie was 
served, as an object of devotion as well as part of the feast. The 
"baby" was removed and the "manger" was eaten with great glee by 
the children.

After the Reformation, the Puritans started a great and vehement 
outcry against the mince pie. It was not the pie itself which 
aroused their wrath, but its form, and the figure of the child. 
However, in their fervor they did not distinguish the issues and 
directed their attack against the dish itself. The "battle of the 
mince pie" was on and raged for many years.[44]

The Puritans were convinced that to eat mince pie at Christmas 
was an abomination, idolatry, superstition, and a popish 
observance. The Catholics and Anglicans immediately rose to the 
defense of the cherished dish. The more the Puritans condemned 
it, the more did the others make and eat it. The eating or non-
eating of mince pie thus became a test of orthodoxy on either side.

When the Puritans finally came to power, mince pie, like Christmas 
itself, was forbidden. John Taylor (an English poet) wrote 
somewhat cynically, in 1646, that among other things, the eating 
of a Christmas pie was enough to have a man arrested for 
committing "high Parliament treason."[45] It was not difficult to 
foresee which side would be victorious in the battle. Despite the 
threats and solemn prohibitions, the eating of the pie was 
continued throughout the country. With the downfall of the Puritan 
regime and the restoration of the monarchy in 1660, the old mince 
pie returned once more to the English home, openly and legally, as 
a feature of the Christmas celebration.

But, ironically enough, the Puritans also won their victory. For the 
Catholics and Anglicans, while campaigning for the very existence 
of the pie and winning the struggle, had gradually neglected its 
shape. By the end of the seventeenth century the pie was made in 
circular form; the figure of the child had disappeared, and, after 
the smoke of the battle cleared away, both parties felt contented 
with their respective victories: the Catholics and Anglicans 
rejoiced in having saved the pie, the Puritans in having changed 
its form.

Thus the mince pie was brought to this country in its new circular 
shape. From New England it spread all over the United States and 
now among all our national groups is the featured dessert on 
Christmas day. The old quarrels have been forgotten, and 
Americans of every denomination eat their mince pie without 
qualms of conscience, in contentment and good will.



Chapter 17: SAINT NICHOLAS

One of the most beloved of all the Saints long ago was St. Nicholas 
of Myra. In many parts of Europe children still believe St. Nicholas 
appears to them on the eve of his Feast (December sixth) laden 
with gifts. His role is that of a heavenly messenger, coming at the 
beginning of Advent and admonishing little children to prepare 
their hearts for properly welcoming the Christ Child at Christmas. 
He is usually impersonated by a man wearing a long white beard, 
dressed in the vestments of a bishop, with miter and crozier, a 
friendly and saintly figure, who comes down from heaven once a 
year to visit the children, whose patron saint he is. He examines 
them, questioning them on their Catechism and hearing their 
prayers. After entreating them to be good boys and girls and to get 
ready for a devout and holy Christmas, he distributes candy and 
fruit and departs with a loving farewell, leaving the little ones 
filled with holy awe and joy.

Despite the immense popularity of St. Nicholas during the Middle 
Ages, both in Europe and Christian Asia, there is scarcely any 
definite historical fact known about him except that he was Bishop 
of Myra in Asia Minor; that he was cast into exile and prison during 
the persecution of Emperor Diocletian and released by Constantine 
the Great; that he died in Myra about 350 and in the year 1087 his 
body was brought by Italian merchants from Myra to the city of 
Bari in Italy, where his relics are still preserved and venerated in 
the church of San Nicola. The reports of numerous miracles 
ascribed to the Saint, both before and after his death, are based on 
a long tradition. As early as 450, churches were being built in his 
honor, and his veneration was general in the Greek Church. From 
there, at the end of the tenth century, it spread to the German 
Empire, and reached its height when his relics arrived in Italy 
during the eleventh century. The Church celebrates his feast day 
as a bishop and confessor annually on December sixth.

By the year 1200, this much loved Saint had captured the hearts 
and imaginations of all European nations. Many churches, towns, 
provinces, and countries venerated him as their patron saint. He is 
patron of Greece, Russia, Sicily, and Lorraine; of many cities in 
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Holland, and Italy. Merchants, 
bakers, and mariners among others have made him their patron. 
But he was always best known as the patron saint of children.

The beautiful legend of St. Nicholas might be told to children 
something like this:

St. Nicholas was born of a rich and noble family in the city of 
Parara in Asia Minor. When he was very little he lost his mother 
and father and had to live the sad and lonely life of an orphan. 
After he had grown to young manhood, he decided to devote his 
life entirely to the service of God, doing good works for his fellow-
men. Obeying the words of Christ, he distributed all his 
possessions to the poor, the sick, and the suffering. He is said to 
have secretly helped very poor people by putting gifts of money 
through their windows during the night, when no one could see 
him (just as he now brings his gifts to you during the night).

His love for the Christ Child inspired him to make a pilgrimage to 
the Holy Land and offer prayers in those historical and holy 
places. On this trip a terrible storm arose but, by his prayers, he 
miraculously saved the already sinking ship as it tossed and 
turned in the high seas. That is the reason he is now venerated as a 
patron of mariners by many brave sailors all over the world. When 
he returned home from this pilgrimage, the bishops of Asia Minor 
elected him as successor to the Bishop of Myra, who had just died. 
The whole city rejoiced when they heard of his appointment. 
Nicholas received the holy orders, modestly and devoutly, and as 
Bishop, practiced not only great holiness of life, by fasting and 
prayer, but had boundless love for his fellow-men. Having been an 
orphan himself, he now became the beloved father of widows and 
orphans. His constant kindness and charity were bestowed 
especially on the children, whom he often gathered about him, 
instructing them in the word of God and delighting them with 
many little gifts.

Under the Roman Emperor Diocletian, who persecuted the 
Christians, St. Nicholas was taken from his home, exiled and 
imprisoned. He suffered hardships of hunger, thirst, cold, 
loneliness, and chains. He wanted to die as a martyr. But when 
Emperor Diocletian left his throne and the first Christian Emperor, 
Constantine the Great, ruled the Roman lands, all Christians who 
had suffered in prison because of their faith, were released. 
Among them was St. Nicholas, who was able to return to Myra 
where he lived for many years, a kind father to all his flock 
especially the poor.

One day he became very ill and soon he realized it was time for 
him to go to Heaven. There he was met by many angels who 
conducted his soul to the throne of God. St. Nicholas was very 
happy.

The whole city mourned his passing, most of all little children. But 
very soon they found out that even from Heaven he continued to 
help them, if only they asked him. So the children started praying 
to St. Nicholas and the faithful believed their prayers were 
answered by thousands of miracles, small ones and great ones. To 
this day boys and girls all over the world pray to their patron saint, 
St. Nicholas.



Chapter 18: THE SIGNIFICANCE OF EXCHANGING PRESENTS

Christmas is the season for exchanging presents. It is not difficult 
to understand why people should be filled with good will on the 
Christ Child's birthday. "As long as you did it for one of these, the 
least of my brethren, you did it for me" (Matthew 25, 40).

The practice of present-giving was also an old Roman custom 
called Strenae. On New Year's day the people of ancient Rome 
exchanged gifts of sweet pastry, lamps, precious stones, and coins 
of gold or silver as tokens of their good wishes for a happy year. 
This custom, and even its name (etrennes), has been preserved 
among the French people to the present day. In most countries, 
however, the present-giving has become a part of the actual 
Christmas celebration.

In Germany the packages of Christmas gifts were called by the 
inspired name of "Christ-bundles." It is interesting to read in books 
of the seventeenth century what these bundles contained. One list 
enumerates the following things: candy, sugar plums, cakes, 
apples, nuts, dolls, and toys; useful things like clothes, caps, 
mittens, stockings, shoes, and slippers; and things "that belong to 
teaching, obedience and discipline," as ABC tables, paper, pencils, 
books; and the "Christ-rod." This rod, attached to the bundle, was a 
pointed reminder for good behavior.

Another form of presenting gifts was the old German custom of the 
"Christmas ship" in which bundles for the children were stored 
away. This was adopted in England to some extent, but never 
attained general popularity, though special carols for the occasion 
were sung in both countries.
     
     There gently sails a precious boat,
     It comes with rich and sacred load: 
     It bears the son of God benign,
     The loving Father's Word Divine.

And an English carol of the sixteenth century on the same theme:

     There came a ship far sailing then,
     Saint Michael was the steersman,
     Saint John sat in the horn.
     Our Lord harped, our Lady sang, 
     And all the bells of heaven rang 
     On Christmas in the morn.

A popular Christmas custom in Britain is "boxing" on the feast of 
St. Stephen, December twenty-sixth. It originated because in 
medieval times the priests would empty the alms-boxes in all 
churches on the day after Christmas and distribute the gifts to the 
poor of the parish. In imitation of this church practice, the 
workers, apprentices, and servants kept their own personal "boxes" 
made of earthenware in which they stored savings and donations 
throughout the year. At Christmas came the last and greatest flow 
of coins, collected from patrons, customers, and friends. Then, on 
the day after Christmas, the box was broken and the money 
counted. This custom was eventually called "boxing" (giving and 
accepting presents). Each present is a "box," and the day of 
present-giving is "boxing-day."

A similar custom prevailed in Holland and some parts of Germany, 
where children were taught to save their pennies in a pig-shaped 
earthenware box. This box was not to be opened until Christmas 
and consequently was called the "feast pig." (From this custom, we 
now have our "piggy banks.")

Exchanging Christmas presents in this country is a combination of 
two old European customs. The first was the present-giving of St. 
Nicholas, who deposited his gifts (of minor size and value) in 
stockings suspended for that purpose by the children on the eve of 
his feast day, December sixth. The second custom was that of the 
actual Christmas presents which the children believed the child 
Jesus brought on December twenty-fifth, or Christmas eve, which 
were arranged beneath the Christmas tree. Our present-day 
celebration of Christmas is a happy combination of both customs.

Who was supposed to bring the Christmas gifts to the children in 
the course of centuries? In most European countries the child 
Jesus is the gift-bringer. The children believe he comes with 
angels during the night, trimming the tree and putting the 
presents under it. Sometimes the Divine Child was impersonated 
by a girl dressed in white, but this custom was never widespread. 
The general practice had the Christ Child arrive unseen by the 
children; helped by the parents, like the American version of Santa 
Claus, He prepared the tree and distributed the gifts. When 
everything was ready, a little bell was rung and the anxious 
children entered the room where all the presents were spread out 
before their shining eyes. But the child Jesus, with His angels, had 
already left for some other home. The reading of the Christmas 
Gospel, a prayer before the crib, and the singing of a hymn united 
the whole family in the Christmas spirit before the gifts were 
opened.

This custom still survives in some parts of Germany, Austria, and 
other countries of Central Europe, as well as in France, French 
Canada, Spain, Central and South America. In Spain and Spanish-
speaking countries the child Jesus (el Nino Jesus) brings the 
Christmas gifts for the children during Holy Night. Since the crib 
has been set up for nine days with an empty manger, the children 
are familiar with it. On Christmas morning, however, they find the 
Holy Child in the crib and the gifts arranged in front of it. They 
exclaim how good the nino Jesus was to bring them when He came 
down from Heaven to take up His abode in the manger in their 
very own home.

The German name of the Christ Child is Christkind, commonly 
used in its diminutive form Christkindel (both i's are short). When 
German immigration to New York and other eastern cities of the 
United States increased after the middle of the last century, the 
Christkindel of the immigrants was gradually adopted in the form 
of Kris Kringle, or Santa Claus, by their fellow countrymen.

In Rome and other cities of Italy an unusual figure impersonates 
the gift-bringer for children. It is the "Lady Befana" (or, Bufana), a 
sort of fairy queen. She has no relation to Christmas, however, for 
the day she distributes presents is January sixth (Epiphany), when 
the children roam the streets, happily blow their paper trumpets, 
and receive the gifts which Lady Befana has provided for them. 
The name comes from the word "Epiphany."

The gift-bringer in Russia is a legendary old woman called 
Babushka (Grandmother). She is said to have misdirected the Magi 
when they inquired their way to Bethlehem. According to another 
version she refused hospitality to the Holy Family on its way to 
Egypt. Whatever her fault, she repented of her unkindness, and to 
make reparation for her sin she now goes about the world on 
Christmas eve, looking for the Christ Child and distributing gifts 
to the children. Another Russian legendary figure is Kolya 
(Nicholas), who goes about during Holy Night, putting on 
windowsills little wheat cakes which have to be eaten on Christmas 
day. To him is addressed a popular Russian carol:

     Kolya, Kolya, 
     On Christmas eve, when all is still, 
     He puts his cakes on the windowsill.

     Kolya, Kolya, 
     Come this Holy Night, we pray, 
     Come and bring us Christmas day! 



Chapter 19: SANTA CLAUS

After the Reformation, the feast and veneration of St. Nicholas 
were abolished in many countries, and the new figure of the 
Christmas Man substituted, so that soon the people in those 
countries forgot St. Nicholas who had once been so dear to them. 
Only here and there a trace of the traditional Christmas Saint 
would linger on, as, for example, the pageant of the "boy bishop" 
in England; or in the name Pelznickel (fur-Nicholas) which many 
people in western Germany gave to their Christmas Man (Pels-
nichol now among the Pennsylvania Dutch). In Holland, however, it 
was not so easy to obliterate the memory of the Saint because the 
Hollanders, a nation of seafarers, had also venerated him for 
centuries as the patron of their ships. Dutch boats used to carry a 
statue of the Saint as the figure-head on their prows. When the 
Calvinists in Holland undertook to replace St. Nicholas with the 
Nordic figure of the Christmas Man, they did not succeed beyond 
obliterating the details of his religious past. To this day the hero 
of Dutch Christmas lore stubbornly retains his popular name of 
Sinter Klaas, as well as his Bishop's garments. The belief that he 
visited little children on the eve of his feast day was never 
abandoned, and his annual arrival in Holland has remained the 
same over the years. He comes mounted on a white charger, in 
awe-inspiring majesty, visiting the homes much like Santa Claus, 
except that there is more religious significance.

Wherever the Hollanders settled in the New World, whether in the 
first Dutch colony of New Amsterdam on Manhattan Island, or later 
in the colonies along the shores of the Hudson, they celebrated 
their feasts in the traditional way. The gift-bringer was good old St. 
Nicholas, the Bishop, who came on the eve of December sixth to 
fill their children's wooden clogs with his presents.

After Britain established the colony of New York, the English 
settlers and immigrants found the kindly figure of Sinter Klaas, in 
his becoming robes, more appealing than their own "Father 
Christmas," especially since St. Nicholas was so closely associated 
with gift-bearing to children, a custom which was not practiced by 
Father Christmas in England.

During the eighteenth century St. Nicholas gradually became the 
accepted gift-bringer for most children in New York, and, adhering 
to the Dutch pronunciation, the word "Santa Claus" was coined 
from their Sinter Klaas. The venerable figure was then tossed into 
the melting pot of Americanization. Santa Claus no longer 
appeared as a Bishop, but as a combination of Father Christmas 
and St. Nicholas, and his visit was transferred from the eve of 
December sixth to Christmas. In place of the Bishop's robes he 
donned the secular dress of Father Christmas, but kept the 
cheerful colors of his past, the popular Dutch form of his name, 
and also St. Nicholas' legendary practice of depositing his-gifts 
during the night in shoes or stockings. From the "Christmas Man" 
he acquired his home and work factory at the North Pole, the 
sleigh and the reindeer and the custom of sliding down the 
chimney, so familiar to all in Moore's popular poem, "'Twas the 
Night Before Christmas."

During the nineteenth century the figure of Santa Claus became a 
household word in New England, in fact along the whole eastern 
seaboard. From there it spread rapidly through the rest of the 
country, and now millions of children thrill in delight and awe at 
the sight of him. They tell him what they want for Christmas; they 
write letters to him; they give him the complete affection and 
confidence of their hearts--unaware of his "split" personality.

The modern story of Santa Claus, as told now to children, is more 
of a fairy tale. Its historical background and the charming legend 
of St. Nicholas are not generally known. There have been many 
changes made since the days of gentle St. Nicholas, whose 
impersonation once appeared to children, they believed, as a 
messenger of the Christ Child.

It has been suggested by many who have the welfare of children at 
heart that Santa be restored to his original Christian meaning. That 
would not mean changing the modern story but simply adding 
historical facts and some legends concerning beloved St. Nicholas 
to present-day Santa Claus lore. It is believed that if, at the very 
beginning, children could be told the historical facts about Santa 
Claus and his life, and the spiritual meaning of the legend, it will 
never cause them to be disillusioned or utter the erroneous 
statement, "There is no Santa Claus." The rest of the story, 
containing the fairy tale, will then be regarded as a rather 
charming addition to the legend of St. Nicholas.



Chapter 20: CHERISHED CUSTOMS--OLD AND NEW

Advent -- Soon after Christmas had been established as the special 
feast of the Lord's Nativity, a time for prayer and fasting was 
introduced in preparation for the great holiday. This sacred 
season, called Advent, became universal in the ninth century and 
is still observed very widely. It begins on the Sunday nearest the 
feast of St. Andrew (November thirtieth) and embraces four 
Sundays. The prayers and liturgical services of Advent stress the 
preparation for the coming of Christ and the joyful expectation of 
the Lord's Nativity, and, in harmony with the spirit of the season, 
very beautiful Advent customs are practiced. A very old one, for 
instance, is the burning of candles every night during Advent for a 
few minutes, while members of the family say a common prayer in 
preparation for Christmas. All other lights are extinguished and 
only the flames of the candles spread their peaceful glow to 
remind the faithful that they are to prepare themselves for the 
advent of Christ, the Light of the World. The candles, four in 
number, are attached to a wreath of laurel or spruce--one candle 
for each week of Advent. On Christmas eve, a large candle is 
placed in the center of the wreath, symbolizing Christ the Lord; 
this is the "Christmas candle." The Advent wreath was widely used 
in churches and homes during past centuries, and is still used in 
Germany and Austria.

Another Advent custom is the practice of letter-writing by the 
children, the letters, of course, containing lists of what they'd like 
for Christmas. When they go to bed before the visit of St. Nicholas 
on the night of December fifth, notably in Bavaria and Austria, the 
children put upon the windowsills little notes which they have 
written or dictated, addressed to the "dear Child Jesus in Heaven." 
St. Nicholas is supposed to take them with him on his visit during 
the night. And so, when the Christ Child comes on Christmas eve, 
He is sure to bring at least a part of what the children asked for. In 
South America the children write their notes to the "little Jesus" 
during the time of the Posada (December sixteenth to twenty-
fourth) and put them in front of the crib, from whence they believe 
angels take them to Heaven during the night.

Up until fairly recent times, a beautiful Advent custom was 
practiced by shepherds in Italy. They came into the towns and 
cities before Christmas to greet the Madonna with the music of 
their simple instruments. Toward the end of last century a Roman 
resident described it in this way: "Since the start of Advent, from 
four o'clock in the morning the inhabitants of the different 
quarters of the city are awakened by the sweet and melancholic 
music of the 'pifferari' (pipers). These are the shepherds of 
Sabinum and of the Abruzzi who descend annually in Advent from 
their mountains and stand before the images of the Madonna, 
placed in the streets or in shops of Rome, to announce by the 
sound of their reed pipes and oboes the approaching birth of the 
Saviour. Nothing seems more touching to me than this pious 
custom. The Romans, whose homes are close by these madonnas, 
call the pipers for the novenas; and for nine days they come 
assiduously to play their Canzonetta to the Mother of God. With 
their mountain caps, their green cloaks, their short sheepskin or 
gratchin trousers, their long hair falling on their shoulders, their 
handsome beards, their sparkling eyes, these mountaineers 
present the most poetic and picturesque sight that I have ever 
seen."[46]

In Central and South America, the nine days before Christmas are 
devoted to a popular novena in honor of the Holy Child (la novena 
del Nino). In the decorated church, the crib is ready, set up for 
Christmas; the only figure missing is that of the Child, since the 
manger is always kept empty until Holy Night. The novena service 
consists of prayers and carol-singing accompanied by popular 
instruments of the castanet type. In Mexico this novena is usually 
held in the manner of a Posada. After the novena service, the 
children roam through the streets of the cities and towns, throwing 
firecrackers and rockets (much like our Fourth of July as far as the 
noise goes), expressing their delight over the approach of 
Christmas.

Still another custom, this one originating in France but spreading 
to many other countries, was the touching practice of having 
children prepare a soft bedding in the manger by using little wisps 
of straw as tokens of prayers and good works. Every night the child 
was allowed to put in the crib one token for each act of devotion or 
virtue performed. Thus the Christ Child, coming on Christmas day, 
would find an ample supply of tender straw to keep Him warm and 
to soften the hardness of the manger's boards.

A variation of this custom is the old Slavic tradition of having the 
small children sleep, not in their beds during Holy Night, but on a 
bedding of straw and hay, to allow them to take part in the grace 
and privilege of the Lord's poor and humble birth. Great blessings 
are believed to come to the little children who are thus bedded at 
Christmas. The Poles, Ukrainians, and other Slavic people also put 
straw upon the floor, beneath the Christmas table, as a reminder 
that all the joys and pleasures of Christmas originate from the 
Holy Child who Himself was reclining in poverty and want in the 
stable on a bed of straw.

Greeting Cards -- In the middle of the nineteenth century when 
postal rates became cheaper, people began to send written 
greetings and good wishes to their relatives and friends before the 
feast of Christmas. It is claimed that the first Christmas greeting 
card was engraved in 1842, by a 16-year-old London artist, William 
Maw Egley, but that it failed to arouse interest among his friends. 
A few years later, special cards were privately printed in Britain by 
a few individuals who designed them for their personal use. Sir 
Henry Cole in 1846 commissioned J. C. Horsley to make a card for 
him, "the usual size of a lady's visiting card." It was many years 
before the manufacture and sale of cards was commercialized. By 
1860 they were on the market and were quite common by about 
1868.

In America, the printing of Christmas cards was introduced by the 
Boston lithographer, Louis Prang, a native of Breslau, Germany. 
Prang offered them to the public for sale in 1875. Since the 
present popular designs of Christmas symbols were not yet known 
here, he adorned his cards with Killarney roses, daisies, 
geraniums, apple blossoms, and similar floral motives. These first 
American Christmas cards, like all other products of Prang's 
lithographic art, are still famous among collectors because of their 
exquisite design and craftsmanship. A few years later he 
broadened his designs to include: children playing in the snow; fir 
trees; fireplaces; and finally Santa, himself. In 1890, when a flood 
of cheap and gaudy novelties in Christmas cards swamped the 
market (dried flowers, chenille, bits of colored glass, corks, and 
seaweed), Prang abruptly stopped the production of his beautiful 
cards to register his disgust and disappointment.

Within the last few decades the sending of Christmas cards has 
become more a burden of social amenity than a token of good will 
and brotherly affection. At present, almost two billion greeting 
cards are mailed annually at Christmas in this country (an average 
of fifty cards per family). Though many of the modern cards do 
not have appropriate Christmas designs, there is a tendency of late 
to return to the genuine spiritual tone of the season.

Of late years, though, a custom has developed (and hardly 
discouraged by the stores) to start celebrating Christmas almost as 
soon as Thanksgiving dinner is over. Small wonder a 13-year-old 
boy was heard to remark: "By the time Christmas comes, I'm sick 
and tired of it."

The Blessing of Homes -- It is an ancient custom in many countries 
to have a priest come on the feast of Epiphany to bless the home. 
Here is the English translation of one of the beautiful prayers:

"Bless, O Lord, almighty God, this house, that therein be found 
good health, chastity, the power of spiritual victory, humility, 
goodness and meekness, the plenitude of the Law, and 
thanksgiving to God, the Father, Son and Holy Spirit: and may this 
blessing remain on the house and on its inhabitants. Through 
Christ our Lord. Amen."[47]

After the blessing the initials of the legendary names of the three 
Magi--Gaspar, Melchior, Baltasar--are written with white chalk on 
the inside of the door, framed by the number of the year, all 
symbols connected by signs of the cross: 19 + G + M + B + 52.48

The End of the Season The end of the Christmas season varies at 
different places. Following the feast of the Epiphany, January 
sixth, twelve days after Christmas, the symbols and decorations 
are taken down in most countries. The liturgical season extends 
until January thirteenth, the Octave of Epiphany. In some places 
cribs and decorations are kept until Candlemas day, February 
second. Robert Herrick, in the middle of the seventeenth century, 
gave the following instructions for Candlemas day:

     Down with the Rosemary, and so 
     Down with the Baies and mistletoe; 
     Down with the Holly, Ivie, all
     Wherewith ye drest the Christmas Hall.

In tracing these many and varied Christmas customs back to their 
original source, however, it should now be evident that they are all 
based on the fact that Christmas is the celebration of our Lord's 
Nativity. Even the remnants of ancient pagan feasts and customs 
which survived have been transformed into a completely Christian 
symbolism, all of it now an integral part of this great feast which is 
celebrated in countries all over the world today. The origin, 
meaning, and purpose of all our Christmas customs is contained in 
the one short phrase addressed to the Holy Child from Blessed 
Henry Suso's carol (1366), In dulci Jubilo (In Sweetest Jubilation):

          Alpha es et O

     Thou Art the Beginning and the End.



ENDNOTES

1. "Sancti Justini Dialogus cum Tryphone Judaeo" (St. Justin, 
Dialogue with Trypho the Jew), chap. 78. J. P. Migne, "Patrologia 
Graeca," vol. VI, col. 658. Written between A.D. 155 and 160.

2. "Sancti Hieronymi Epistola LVIII ad Paulinum" (St. Jerome, Letter 
58, to Paulinus). J. P. Migne, "Patrologia Latina," vol. XXIII, col. 581.

3. Origenes, "Contra Celsum Liber Primus" (The first book against 
Celsus), chap. 51. J. P. Migne, "Patrologia Graeca," vol. XI, col. 755.

4. Synodal Letter, Council of Jerusalem, A.D. 836.

5. See the picture of such a crib opposite page 125 in F. W. 
Willam's "Mary the Mother of Jesus," St. Louis, 1947.

6. C. C. Edgar, in "Annales du Service des Antiquites de l'Egypte," 
vol. 22 (1922), p. 7 ff.

7. "Revised Standard Version of the New Testament," New York, 
1946. The explanatory addition (God) is not contained in the text 
of the Standard Version but was inserted by the author of this 
book.

8. "Sanctus Beda Venerabilis De Collectaneis" (Collected Notes). J. P. 
Migne, "Patrologia Latina," vol. XCIV, col. 541.

9. "Divine Office," Proprium of the Archdiocese of Cologne, Feast of 
the Translation of the Magi (July 23rd), second Nocturn.

10. Flavius Josephus, "The Jewish Antiquities," book XV, chap. 10, 
par. 4.

11. "Sancti Cypriani De Pascha Computus" (The Computation of 
Easter). J. P. Migne, "Patrologia Latina," vol. IV, col. 963.

12. St. John Chrysostom, "On the Solstice and Equinox," quoted in 
the "Catholic Encyclopedia," vol. III, p. 727.

13. This report was found, in direct quotation, in three books of 
the last century. Inquiries at various libraries in the United States 
and in Canada failed to produce further data on Harrison's book.

14. "Sancti Gregoriii Turonensis Libri Miraculorum," I, 1. J. P. Migne, 
"Patrologia Latina," vol. LXXI, col. 707.

15. See also R. J. Campbell, "The Story of Christmas," New York, 
1934, p. 40, where a similar legend is mentioned.

16. Thomas de Celano, "Sancti Francisci Assisiensis Vita and 
Miracula" (Life and Miracles of St. Francis of Assisi), critical 
edition, revised by P. Edward d'Alencon, Rome, 1906, chap. cli, 
par. 199. Quotations from this (Latin) edition were translated by 
the author.

17. "Hamlet," act 1, scene 1.

18. "The Flying Eagle Gazette," London, 25 December 1652.

19. N. Doran, "The Ups and Downs of Christmas," "The National 
Magazine," London, 1857.

20. "The Declaration of many thousands of the city of Canterbury. 
.." (Broadsheet), London, 1648 (British Museum).

21. See W. P. Dawson, "Christmas; its Origins and Associations," 
London, 1902, p. 211 ff.

22. From "Old Christmas Returned," a poem of about 1665.

23. Ildefonso Schuster, "The Sacramentary" ("Liber 
Sacramentorum"), New York, 1924, vol. I, p. 362.

24. Celano, "Life and Miracles of St. Francis," chap. xxx, par. 86.

25. This poem is a part of the famous Cherry Tree Carol, rendered 
in the version of William Hone, "Ancient Mysteries," London, 
1823, p. 90.

26. The Latin text and the music of this carol are reprinted in "A 
Christmas Book," by D. B. Wyndham Lewis and G. C. Heseltine, 
London, 1928, p. 77; also in "The Trapp Family Book of Christmas 
Songs," edited by Franz Wasner, New York, 1950, p. 16.

27. See "The Trapp Family Singers," Souvenir Book Publishing Co., 
New York, 1948, p. 4; also the article on the Rainer Singers by 
Hans Nathan, in the "Musical Quarterly," G. Schirmer, New York, 
January, 1946.

28. The author translated this carol from the Spanish version as 
published in "Edasi" magazine, Caracas (Venezuela), 1949, with 
permission of the publishers.

29. "The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents," ed. by R. G. 
Thwaites, Cleveland, 1896-1901. Vol. XXVII (1898), p. 210.

30. Karl Young, "The Drama of the Medieval Church," Oxford, 1933, 
vol. II, p. 4 ff.

31. See Bernhard Duhr, S.J., "Geschichte der Jesuiten in den Landern 
deutscher Zunge," 6 vols., Freiburg and Regensburg, 1907-1928.

32. Notes of the pastor (Fr. Gustave Eck, S.J.?, 1851, manuscript, 
parish archive, Holy Trinity Church, Boston, Massachusetts.

33. See Young, "The Drama of the Medieval Church," vol. II, p. 29 
ff.; and William Sandys, "Christmastide," London, s. a., p. 168. Also 
James L. Monks, S.J., "Great Catholic Festivals," New York, 1951, p. 
21 ff.

34. "Jesuit Relations," vol. LXI (1900), p. 118 ff.

35. Celano, "Life and Miracles of St. Francis," chap. xxx, par. 84-86.

36. For the historical research on the Christmas tree and other 
German Christmas customs, see Paul Cassel, "Weihnachten; 
Ursprunge, Brauche und Aberglauben," Berlin, 1861; A. Tille, 
"Geschichte der Deutschen Weihnacht," 1893; O. Lauffer, "Der 
Weihnachtsbaum in Glauben und Brauch," 1934; C. Schneider, "Der 
Weihnachtsbaum und seine Heimat, das Elsass," 1929.

37. Quoted in Dawson, "Christmas, its Origins and Associations," p. 
313.

38. "Tertulliani Liber de Idololatria" (Book on Idolatry), chap. xv. J. 
P. Migne, "Patrologia Latina," vol. I, col. 684.

39. St. Gregory addressed this instruction to the French abbot 
Mellitus, requesting him to forward it to St. Augustine of 
Canterbury: "Sancti Gregorii Magni Epistola LXXVI ad Mellitum 
Abbatem" (Letter 76, to the Abbot Mellitus). J. P. Migne, "Patrologia 
Latina," vol. LXXVII, col. 1215.

40. Also "oidhche nam bannag"; see Edward Dwelly (comp.), "The 
Illustrated Gaelic Dictionary," Fleet, Hants, 1930, p. 66.

41. From the "Newcastle Chronicle," 6 January 1770, quoted in 
William Hone's "Table Book," vol. II, p. 506.

42. "Rituale Romanum, Benedictio vini in Festo S. Joannis Apostoli et 
Evangelistae" (The Roman Ritual, Blessing of wine on the feast of 
St. John, Apostle and Evangelist).

43. Quoted in Crippen, "Christmas and Christmas Lore," p. 123.

44. See Thomas K. Hervey, "The Book of Christmas," Boston, 1888, 
p. 159.

45. John Taylor, "The Complaint of Christmas written after 
Twelftide and printed before Candlemas," London, 1646.

46. "Dix ans au service du Roi Pie IX." Memoires d'un zouave 
pontifical, par Comte Philippe de V***, Fribourg, 1880, 2 vols. 
Translation by Allen J. Doherty.

47. "Rituale Romanum, Benedictio domorum in Festo Epiphaniae" 
(Blessing of homes on the feast of the Epiphany).

48. "Rituale Romanum, Benedictio cretae in Festo Epiphaniae" 
(Blessing of chalk on the feast of the Epiphany).



79


                 THE LITTLE BOOK OF HUMILITY & PATIENCE

                        by Archbishop Ullathorne

     Being Selections from "The Groundwork of the Christian Virtues"
     and "Christian Patience"

     Westminster, Maryland 
     The Newman Bookshop 1945



                                CONTENTS


                                 PART I

                                HUMILITY

     I.    The Divine Law of Probation

     II.   On the Nature of Christian Virtue

     III.  On the Difficulties of Virtue

     IV.   On the Nature of Humility

     V.    On the Grounds of Humility

     VI.   On Humility towards our Neighbor

     VII.  How Humility responds to the Benignity of God

     VIII. The Divine Master of Humility

     XI.   On Humility as the Receptive Foundation of the Divine Gifts
           and Virtues

     X.    On the Magnanimous Character of Humility

     XI.   On the Detestable Vice of Pride

     XII.  The World without Humility

     XIII. On the Foolish Vice of Vanity

     XIV.  The Humility of Faith

     XV.   On the Schools of Humility

     XVI.  On Humility as the Counterpart of Charity

     

                                 PART II
                                    
                           CHRISTIAN PATIENCE

     I.    The Work of Patience in the Soul

     II.   On the Nature and Object of Christian Patience

     III.  On Patience as a Universal Virtue

     IV.   On Christian Fortitude

     V.    On the Patience of the Son of God

     VI.   On Patience as the Discipline of the Soul

     VII.  On Patience as the Perfecter of our Daily Duties

     VIII. Encouragements to Patience

     IX.   On the Gifts of the Holy Ghost

     X.    On Prayer

     XI.   On Patience in Prayer

     XII.  On the Cheerfulness of Patience



                                HUMILITY
                                    
                                    
                       The Divine Law of Probation

                                   I.

Spiritual natures are on the summits of creation; there is nothing but God
above them.

There is no master so large-minded, so generous, or who is so well
acquainted with you and your requirements, as God; no father so loving and
bountiful; no friend so free from all jealousy; none who so completely
loves you for your greater good. Whilst there is no tyrant so
narrow-minded, so proud-hearted, so exacting, so suspicious, so utterly
bent on keeping you to your own littleness, as the one we all know so
well, of whose tyranny we have had such bitter experience, and who goes by
the name of Myself. Yet God or yourself you must choose for your master.

The whole design of God's beneficent government of souls is to draw them
out of themselves and to bring them to His truth and good.

                                   II.

This ever-moving earth is not only attracted to its own center, as all
that constitutes man is held together by the central force of the soul,
but it is held on its rapid course by the attraction of the sun; and as it
turns towards that mighty luminary it receives his image, and partakes his
light, warmth and fertilizing power. Yet his rays are intercepted by the
vapors which the earth produces, and by the turbulence arising from their
conflicts. And so by His creative influence does God hold the ever-active
soul, in which He has placed His image, in her dependence. But when she
turns her face with desire to Him who attracts her, He sends forth the
celestial influence of His light, grace and charity upon her, attracting
her to move towards Him by faith, hope and love, and she becomes a
partaker of His goodness. But as the soul is not necessitated like the
earth, but free to make her choice, if she prefers her own central
attraction, and the drawing to herself of the small things around her
instead of the divine attraction, and her own uneasy love instead of the
divine love, that soul is left to her own littleness, is clouded and
darkened by her own vapors, and troubled in herself.

                                   III.

Who can express the magnificence of the light of faith as compared with
the light of reason? In the things of God and the soul, reason but gropes
among the shadows reflected here below; whilst faith, with its light
direct from God, opens out the infinite and eternal prospect of divine
truth, which, though obscurely seen, is yet surely seen by the humble
mind, giving a breadth and firmness to the mind that nothing can explain
but the action of God in the soul.

God and His angels are near to the man of faith--so near that the gross
veil of the body alone intervenes between our soul and the presence of God
and our guardian angels.

                                   IV.

It is the fostering of minor troubles till they swell to a flood of
sadness and discouragement that gives the devil a turbid pool in which to
cast his nets. If those minor troubles befall you, let them drop. Be not
disturbed: turn your heart to God. Do not look at them; do not dispute
with them; answer them not a word. Only turn your mind from them and let
them drop.

                                   V.

Only the power of God can bear us up to God. Our will is free, and if we
follow the divine attraction, the grace of that attraction will bring us
to His presence. But if we choose the attraction of these base and low
things among which we are placed for our probation, and prefer the sordid
limits of our nature to the heights of the divine goodness, we remain in
the bonds of our disordered existence, distressed in spirit and far from
God. The whole plan of our happiness is defeated from our want of
generosity. What does God ask of us? Not that we should be stronger than
we are, but that we should confess our weakness and accept His strength.
For God has provided all things for us in great abundance. Nothing is
wanting but our will. If we are in a low position and short of sight, He
has sent forth His light and His truth to lead and guide us. If we are
weak of will, He sends His grace to strengthen and lift up our will. If we
are uncertain of His ways, He has sent His Son in our likeness to teach us
His ways, who has ordained His Church for every place and time, that His
truth and will may be always at our door. Our will may be weak, very weak;
He asks for that will that He may make it strong. All that God asks of us
is our will; when given to Him, in whatever condition, He will make it
good. But, without our will, every provision to help and strengthen us is
in vain; they cannot be ours.


                    On the Nature of Christian Virtue

                                   I.

When virtue in all perfection did appear in visible form to the eyes of
men, when Christ, "the wisdom of God and the power of God," was seen, and
heard, and touched by men, the humble alone were drawn to Him with
wondering love. The sensual and the proud scorned and crucified Him.
Something more than human eyes is required to love that virtue which
descends from God. We cannot love that of which there is no element within
us; and as the divine grace is the principle of Christian virtue, we first
require the grace of humility to open our eyes to the divine beauty of
that virtue which alone is worthy of God.

                                   II.

Christian virtue differs so widely from natural virtue that its power
begins from God. The effect of virtue is to make the person good as well
as his work, and to perfect the soul according to the quality and degree
of the virtue exercised. Virtue, then, is not a sentiment or a feeling, or
any conscious enjoyment of one's own goodness, as some people are blind
enough to imagine; the pleasure of virtue is derived from its object and
is a result of its exercise, whilst the reward of Christian virtue is
neither the virtue itself nor the enjoyment of it, but the God of virtue.
As St. Ambrose says: "He who quits himself and cleaves to virtue, loses
his own and gains what is eternal."

                                   III.

The exercise of every habit of virtue includes five distinct elements.
These are the object of the virtue, the motive, the law of the virtue, the
decision, and the action.


The object of a virtue is that upon which, or towards which, it is
exercised. The object of faith, for example, is the invisible truth
revealed to us by God.

The motive is the end we have in view. If a man helps the poor because it
becomes his station in life, or because he accounts it honorable that no
one in distress should leave his door unrelieved, this man has no higher
motive or end to his virtue than his own honor, which is the heathen
virtue of self-respect, beginning and ending in the man himself. If
another assists the poor from the natural feeling of sympathy and
kindliness, and looks to no higher motive, this is the natural virtue of
benevolence, but nothing beyond. If the Christian helps the helpless not
merely from kindliness but from the love of God, the motive is charity;
and whilst his object is to help his suffering neighbor, his final motive
is the love of God. "A work is then truly excellent," says St.  Augustine,
"when the intention of the workman is struck out from the love of God, and
returns again and again to rest in charity." What a prodigious waste of
value is caused to the virtues by exercising them on low motives and with
low intentions, when they might be exercised on the very highest motives
The higher the motive, the nearer the soul is carried towards God and this
is true even in the lowest occupations.

Man sees in the face, but God in the heart. Man looks to the present value
of the virtues as they affect this life, but God looks at the inward
motive and intention as it regards eternity. The soul may draw near to God
whilst the body is humbled down to the lowest toil; but this the world
cannot see. There is a sublimity arising from the high flight of the
intention above the meanness of the work, whilst both unite in the will of
the workman, which angels may admire, but which the world, that sees but
the mean work, can never understand. The poor man, rich in faith, who
toils for the love of God and is generous of the little fruit of his
labors, is much nearer to heaven than the rich man who spends a fortune in
good works from no higher motive than his natural inclination to
benevolence.

                                   IV.

Restlessness and excitement betray weakness; tranquillity is a quality
that belongs to solid virtue.

The Christian virtues are the feet and wings whereby the soul moves in the
direction of her final end; for even those duties that have their
immediate end in this life, when directed by spiritual motives have their
final end in God.

                                   V.

Our share in the world's affairs is too apt to take us from ourselves and
from the divine examplers seated in the inward man, and so bring us down
from supernatural to natural habits, and from divine to human motives. It
is, therefore, a great advancement in the virtues when the soul can be as
simple, as sincere, as little given to vanity and as well habited in
Christian goodness abroad in the world as at home. This depends much upon
interior watchfulness and the keeping of the center of the soul in a state
of calm recollectedness.

It belongs to the man who is in quest of his supreme good to draw as near
to divine things as his condition of life will allow.

To this we are often urged in the Gospel. our Lord says: "Seek first the
kingdom of God and His justice, and all these things shall be added to
you."(St. Matthew vi, 33.) And, again, He tells us: "Be ye perfect as your
Heavenly Father is perfect."(St. Matthew v. 48.) That is to say, as your
Heavenly Father is perfect God, be you perfect man, formed upon the type
of the one perfect man.


                      On the Difficulties of Virtue

                                   I.

The two fundamental efforts of Christian virtue are these: The first is to
leave our own selfish affections as much as we can, and to get as near to
God with our will and affections as we may. The second is to get the habit
of acting as much on principle and as little on sentimentality as we can.

The whole labor of virtue consists in transferring the will from the
attractions of nature to the attractions of grace, and in getting out of
that narrow selfishness and away from those morbid sensibilities, to reach
the divine atmosphere of truth and justice.

The only insurmountable obstacle is want of humility, to obtain which is
the greatest labor of the soul.

                                   II.

The chief reasons why the real beginning and each great step in advance on
the way of divine virtue are laborious are that they demand
self-renunciation and self-denial; they involve the breaking up of old and
cherished habits to which nature clings; they require an ever-increasing
humility descending further and further into the soul, pulling down the
last remains of the pride of life and opening the innermost soul to the
influence of grace; they have to master human respect; they have to detach
the will from self-love, a detachment that rends nature to her center
before the healing and restoring life of charity can enter thus far and
close the wound of nature; they have to transfer our powers more
completely from nature to grace, and to raise what still acts in us under
human motives to divine motives. All this requires that we be subject to
trials.

                                   III.

The difficulties to be overcome in these ascensions to better things are
not in them, but in ourselves, and there is a grandeur in the enterprise,
a magnificence in the venture, that is full of encouragement. What a charm
to be linked and united more closely and ever more closely with the
eternal mysteries! What a help in the divine power! What a glory for us
mortals to be always approaching nearer and nearer to the Supreme and
Infinite Good! What are all the petty interests of this mortal life, that
they should absorb the soul, compared with the wonderful things above us
that hang on the tree of life, and are always ready for the soul that is
willing to reach up to them.  We have also a Divine Leader, not in the
remote distance of history, but with us, always with us; God in our
nature, God with us, God within us, our way, truth and life, lighting us
to the virtues, giving us the force to practice them.

                                   IV.

Nothing cramps the freedom of the soul in a greater degree than the fear
of what others will think and say. The first thing to be done after taking
the narrow way is to shut the world out of consideration and look only to
the approval of God.

The burden of life is from ourselves, its lightness from the grace of
Christ and the love of God.

                                   V.

Charity gives peace to the soul. For whoever loves God above all things
rests his heart on the eternal peace. "God is greater than our heart." He
can fill all our desires, and when the heart knows this, the nearer it
draws to the Divine Fountain of Good, the more it finds repose. But we
must keep in mind that charity can never come from oneself; it can only
come from God.

                                   VI.

Let it be plainly understood that we cannot return to God unless we enter
first into ourselves. God is everywhere, but not everywhere to us. There
is but one point in the universe where God communicates with us, and that
is the center of our own soul. There He waits for us; there He meets us;
there He speaks to us. To seek Him, therefore, we must enter into our own
interior.


                        On the Nature of Humility

                                    I.

Here are four Virtues, the fruits of divine grace, which in their union
bring the soul to God: these are humility, faith, purity and charity. With
the loss of the knowledge of the true God they were lost to the world, and
our Lord Jesus Christ brought them down anew from heaven to mankind. Their
union in the soul is the distinctive sign of Christian holiness. When
pride throws off obedience to God, humility dies. When the mind rebels
against the authority of God as the Revealer of truth, faith dies together
with humility. When the graceless soul allows the body to revolt and
defile the soul with uncleanness, holiness is extinct. When self-love
holds the place of charity, the spiritual life of man is no more. When
these virtues have departed, the man is left to nature and the world, but
to nature in cruel disorder, and to the world, not as God has made it in
His goodness, but as man has made it in his concupiscence, to the world as
it is taken up for a final end in place of God.

The men of the world have their measure of virtue, but that virtue falls
short of God, and ends in this life. They measure their virtues upon the
requirements of their fellowmen.

                                   II.

The least known amongst the virtues, and consequently the most
misunderstood, is the virtue of humility, and yet it is the very
groundwork of the Christian religion.

Humility is a grace of the soul that cannot be expressed in words, and is
only known by experience.  It is an unspeakable treasure of God, and can
only be called the gift of God. "Learn," He said--not from angels, not
from men, not from books--but learn from My presence, light and action
within you, "that I am meek and humble of heart, and you shall find rest
to your souls."(S. J. Climacus, "Sea la Paradisi," Grad. 25.)

The more we are subject to God, the nearer we are to Him. He is infinitely
above us, but by this very subjection we ascend to Him, and find in Him
whatever is truly great.

                                   III.

Humility consists in the confession of the grace of God.

The first office of the grace of God is to make us sensible of the giver.

The grand object for which we came into existence is more than the light
and grace of God; it is God Himself, and those gifts are given to guide
and lead and help us to Him. We are not our own good, nor are the things
around or beneath us our good, however useful in their place and order,
but God is our good, and whatever comes from God that is better than
ourselves helps us on to Him. We have but the capacity for good, and the
power of working with the good we receive. Pride is the practical denial
of this truth, a truth that springs from the constitution of our nature.
And therefore it is said in Holy Scripture that "pride was not made for
man."(Ecclesiasticus x, 22.)

                                   IV.

Again, humility is the interior, spiritual, sacrificial action through
which, with the profoundest veneration and gratitude, we offer to God the
being and life we have received from Him, with the desire and prayer that
we may die to ourselves and live to Him; that we may be wholly changed and
transformed into His likeness, detached from earth and united with God.
But as we come to our God from sin and dark ingratitude, we owe more to
Him than our being and our life; we owe Him the contrition, the breaking
to pieces of our sinful form, with regret and sorrow that we have defiled
and defaced His beautiful work; we owe to Him that we throw away every
breath of vanity, falsehood and evil, which, when cast out of us, is
nothing.

                                    V.

Perfect humility is the fruit of perfect charity. The more we love God the
less we value ourselves.  He who is truly humble, truly empty of himself,
is a vessel of election to God, full to overflowing with His Benedictions.
He has only to ask to receive still more. He is the child of all the
beatitudes, poor in spirit, meek of heart, hungering and thirsting after
justice.

When humility finds nothing in herself to rest upon, she finds her true
center, and that center is God. For the humble soul alone has got the
divine as well as the human measure of things.


                       On the Grounds of Humility

                                   I.

The first ground of humility is our creation from nothing. We are of a
short time; our beginning was feeble, as became our origin, and nothing
was the womb of us all. Whence are we? From the creative will of God. What
are we? An existence dependent on the will of God. Whither are we going?
Onwards, ever onwards, the body to the dust, the soul to the judgment-seat
of God. God is the one, absolute, perfect Being; we are but existences,
the products of His will, dependent on Him for all we are and have; and
all this great scene about us that fills our senses is of less value than
the last soul that was created and born into this world; for the soul is
for God, but this visible universe for the service and probation of the
soul.

                                   II.

The second ground of humility is our intellectual light. That light makes
us reasonable creatures.  In that light we see the first principles of
truth, order and justice; it is the foundation of our mind and of our
conscience. Man is variable and changeable, and one man differs from
another; but the light of truth and justice shines one and the same to
all, and the chief difference between one man and another is in the degree
of his communion with that light.

                                   III.

The third ground of humility is in our dependence on the providence of
God. Our life with all its conditions is in the hand of God.

The fourth ground of humility is our sins, whereby we have deformed and
denaturalized our nature, ungraced ourselves before God, and incurred His
reprobation.

The fifth ground of humility is in the weakness, ignorance, and
concupiscence that we have inherited from original sin, and have increased
by our actual sins.

The sixth ground of humility is in the open perils and hidden snares with
which we are surrounded.  Error in all its forms, unbelief in all its
modes and varieties, move in their motley shapes through nearly every
grade of life, with the apparent unconsciousness that truth is one and
comes from God.  The widespread evil of modern life is the amazing
indifference to the well-being of the soul. An intense activity outside
the soul pursues its many ways in the name of progress, although the
object or ultimate aim of that progress is neither thought of nor spoken
of. But it is chiefly a progress, not to, but from the soul, not to, but
from God.

The seventh ground of humility is in the special odiousness and deformity
of pride, which is in direct opposition, beyond every other vice, to the
order, reason, and truth of things. Pride turns all things from God;
humility turns all things to God.

The eighth ground of humility is in the consideration of what this virtue
does for us. It opens the soul to the truth of Christ, and the heart to
the grace of Christ.

The ninth ground of humility is the knowledge of God and His divine
perfections.

                                   IV.

The tenth ground of humility is the secure rest provided for the soul in
the unspeakable benefits of our Divine Redeemer.

The eleventh ground of humility is in our distance in this vale of
suffering and tears from the Supreme Object of our soul, and the risks we
run in the meanwhile from our infirmities.

The twelfth foundation of humility is the holy fear of the judgments of
God. For unless we shelter ourselves well in the humility of Christ, and
do penance, and use the world as though we used it not, we are not safe.
Unless, again, a humble dependence on God be the foundation of our life
and the love of God be our ruling affection, we know not in what state God
will find us in the hour when we shall pass from this world.


                    On Humility towards our Neighbor

                                    I.

If the virtue of humility is often misunderstood when directly exercised
towards God, the same virtue is liable to still greater misconception when
exercised towards our neighbor.

There are two things to be considered in every man, and these two things
have to be well and carefully distinguished from each other; what the man
is of himself, and what he is by the superadded gifts of God. Every man
ought to subject what is purely his own to what is of God, whether that
which is of God is in himself or in another.

This is the principle of humility in its exercise towards our neighbor; it
is not a reverence given to human nature, but to the gifts of God within
that nature.

                                   II.

But the same humility forbids the unreasonableness of judging another
man's soul. We can only act on what we know, and we always know much more
of our own internal weakness and defects than we can know in the case of
another person.

Few persons, perhaps, reflect on the beauty of the reward we receive for
humility to our neighbor.  This humility opens the soul to all the good
that God has planted in other souls.

Those are the happy, sunshiny souls that are open to see all the good
influences of God around them, and that receive into themselves the
reflection of the divine good which God has given to other souls. This is
one of the great privileges of a truly religious society where humility
and charity are the dominant virtues, that each soul is always receiving a
beautiful and powerful influence from all the rest of the community.

The very spectacle gives a light to the words of our Lord, that "where two
or three are gathered together in My name, there I am in the midst of
them."(St. Matthew xviii, 20.)

                                   III.

It is the will of men acting apart from God, and preferring in their pride
to see the evil rather than the good in their fellowmen, that so bitterly
entangles this world of human nature. It is the myriads of self-wills,
impelled each by its own self-love, that produce the knots, the ravels and
the interminable complications that make this world such a wearying
perplexity to thoughtful minds devoid of the wisdom that descends from
God. Even David was perplexed in his musings on these things until he
remembered the judgments of God.

The tragedy of human life is not that strife of free-will with fate that
the ignorant Pagans imagined, but it arises from the collision of pride
with the providence of humiliation, of self- will, destined always to
defeat, against the will of God. There is such an enormous distance
between what we are by nature and what God would have us to be by grace,
that we may pass from misery to happiness; and the obstacles within us
that hold us back or throw us the other way are of such a kind, tending to
seek false instead of true greatness, in the exaltation of ourselves, and
not in ascending to things greater than ourselves, that this alone shows
us what a great part humility must take in replacing us on the path that
leads to God.

Although the light that descends to us from God is the chief principle of
self-knowledge, the watching of our conduct towards our neighbors also
helps us very much to know ourselves.


              How Humility responds to the Benignity of God

                                    I.

Although all the virtues imitate God, God Himself has not our virtues, but
He is one infinite virtue and perfection. Our virtue is a struggle against
frailty, a progress to better things, a triumph over weakness, and it is
perfected, as St. Paul says, amidst infirmity. It is the effect of good
will, helped by the grace of God, to bring us near to God.

                                   II.

The Father gives all He has to every creature He has made, and to His
intelligent creatures, capable and willing to receive them, things divine
as well as earthly; but with them He gives the law of justice, which
demands that we give them all back to Him. To do this is humility in man.

Humility, therefore, is nothing less than the reflection in our life of
the truth and justice of God. By humility we also imitate the purity of
God.

                                   III.

What, then, is the benignity of God but the lowering and diminishing of
Himself in the minds and hearts of His rational creatures, that He may
adapt Himself to our limited understanding and contracted sense?

God descends into our ways to raise us to His divine ways, and we obtain
the divine likeness in the degree in which we love Him.

God delights to call Him self our Father, and by that holy title He seems
to preside over His human family in a homely and familiar way. It is
unspeakable what service God is always rendering to us, and what benignity
and condescension we are daily and hourly receiving from our Heavenly
Father.

The humble ways of God in this world are His tender, loving ways. They are
the sublimest of all lessons to the proud, if the proud could only learn
them. But whilst they attract the humble, and fill their souls with
sweetness, proving, above all things else, the love which God has for
them; they repel the proud, who could not receive them without the utter
condemnation of their own evil condition.

                                   IV.

Had we the true spirit of God, and a humble trust in His benignant care of
all humble things that do His will, we should never want in anything that
might conduce to our eternal good. For His special love and care is for
the humble, whose sincere spirit resembles His own.

All the examples of divine condescension that we can accumulate cannot
bring home to the truly humble soul a conviction equal to the loving sense
within that soul of what God is to the humble. If He rejects the proud, it
is because they are alien to His nature; if He receives the humble, it is
because they are conformable to His life. Those humble spirits who look to
nothing but His goodness are His true children, and He loves to yield to
their prayers and expostulations.

God loves to be resisted in His displeasure, and to be restrained by the
humble from inflicting punishment. One saint will often save a nation; so
true is it that humble souls are the hinges on which God moves the world.

Humility so perfects man for God that when the SON OF GOD took our nature
He could find no other virtue so capable of uniting that nature with God.


                      The Divine Master of Humility
                                    
                                   I.

The Scriptural sense of the word Master signifies one who teaches with
authority, and this title was given to the Son of God both by His
disciples and His adversaries.

Who is the true Master but He who is all that He teaches and incomparably
more than He teaches?  Jesus Christ was the substantive Master of
humility.

When we speak of Christ as the Master of humility, we speak of something
preeminently great and excelling. The Son of God could not take the nature
of man without making that nature morally perfect, and He has shown in
Himself that the foundation of moral perfection in a creature is perfect
humility. He could not, again, take the office upon Him of our Mediator
and Redeemer without showing us in a pre-eminent way by what virtue we are
reconciled to God and made open to His sanctifying gifts. This virtue He
therefore manifested the most conspicuously in Himself. He took it as His
singular prerogative because it was the perfect subjection of His humanity
to His divinity, because it was the virtue by which He redeemed the world,
and because it is the one virtue by which every soul that He came to
redeem returns to God. TO this virtue, therefore, as to His great human
prerogative, He especially appealed as to the chief lesson that we are to
learn of Him, "Learn of Me, for I am meek and humble of heart."(St.
Matthew xi, 19.)

                                   II.

The Son of God could never have accepted this condition of humility but
for the divinest reason of glorifying the Holy Trinity, which He did in
taking the headship of humanity, in perfecting that humanity in Himself,
in recovering that humanity to God when lost, and in restoring that
humanity to the great and divine end for which every intelligent soul was
created. He took this humble condition to drive back and destroy the huge
invasion of pride that was the ruin of the human race. "Being in the form
of God, He thought it no robbery to be equal with God, but emptied
Himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of man,
and in habit found as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient unto
death, even the death of the cross."* In which form of a servant He was
less than the Father, less than Himself, unequal to Himself, unlike
Himself, emptied to all appearance of Himself, in this land of misery and
sorrow, that by restoring us to humility He might restore us to God.

Thus through His Incarnation the Son of God both consecrated and deified
humility, making it more glorious to be humble with God, than to be
exalted with pride among the children of men. To imitate Christ in His
humility is something truly great.

                                   III.

But pride was not the only evil that withheld men from God; the
covetousness of the things of this world, and the appetite for sensual
pleasures drew them with an overpowering fascination from the knowledge of
God and from the love of eternal good. On this account it was necessary
that we should not only have the example of humility but also of
self-abnegation, which is so intimately connected with humility. Our Lord,
therefore, united His humility with poverty, and His poverty with self-
abnegation. Nor was this merely for our example, but because the life of
humility, poverty and self- abnegation is the most perfect of human lives,
as depending on God alone, and as setting the things of this mortal life
at their true value as compared with the things of eternity. Yet through
all the humility and poverty of Christ His Divinity shines; as in the
humility of His Saints the Spirit of God shines through every abasement.

                                   IV.

The calm and gentle way in which the Son of God first makes Himself known
to the people of Nazareth, to those who had known Him for thirty years
from His infancy, and let them know that He, whom they had only known as
an obedient son and a pious working man, was the expected Messiah, and the
fulfillment of the Prophets, has always appeared to me to be one of the
most remarkable passages in the history of His divine life. It is not only
remarkable for the calm gentleness of His bearing at so solemn a moment,
but for the humility with which He makes an announcement so startling to
His audience. There is none of the excitement or fervor of enthusiasm with
which mere human nature would have announced a great personal claim for
the first time, especially when contrary to all the preconceptions of his
hearers; there is the calmness of God in the figure and voice of man. He
reads the prophetic description of His divine mission in the ordinary
course of His duty as a reader in the Synagogue, and then, when all eyes
are fixed upon Him, He gently drops the word to their attentive ears,
"This day is fulfilled this Scripture in your ears." All the rest He
leaves to the silent inference of their own minds.

                                   V.

Let it be further observed that in all His humble words and ways, our
Divine Lord never speaks directly of His own humility but once. He lives
and breathes and personifies the virtue, as what is inseparable from Him;
but of his own humility He spoke but once. He spoke once because that was
necessary for our instruction; He spoke once to consecrate this wonderful
virtue; He spoke only once because of the exceeding delicacy and hidden
nature of the virtue, which, like purity, is far too modest to be spoken
of by its possessor except in a case of absolute necessity. And in this,
too, He conveys to us a profound instruction. "Come," He says, "to Me,
learn of Me;" "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh to the
Father except through Me.(St. john xiv, 6.) He is the way to heaven, the
truth from heaven, the life that brings heaven; and He says, Come to Me;
learn this one thing from Me, and you shall know all things; learn this
one thing from Me, and you shall possess all things; learn of Me to be
meek and humble of heart. There is nothing so wonderful in power as the
humility of Christ, who, resting the created nature of His humanity wholly
upon His Divine nature, ascribes nothing whatever to that human nature,
which He knew so perfectly to be nothing without God.

                                   VI.

Having once learnt from Christ that the great lesson He has come to teach
us is His own meekness and humility, we then discover that His
Incarnation, His birth, all the actions of His life, His sufferings and
death, all speak to us, and breathe into us, this divine lesson of
humility; and everywhere, even when His voice is silent, His life and
conduct say to us: "Learn of Me, because I am meek and humble of heart."

                                   VII.

The passion of our Lord presents all the great virtues in their perfection
for our imitation, whether self-denial, poverty of spirit, obedience,
silence, humility, purity, patience, prayer, resignation, contempt of the
world, or charity. But among all these virtues He pre-eminently appears as
the Master of humility. His passion is the book of humility, His Cross is
the throne of humility, the terrible way from the Mount of Olives to Mount
Calvary is the substantive exposition of the words, "Learn of Me, for I am
meek and humble of heart."

The Cross is the instrument of contrition upon which the earthly man is
broken to be reformed upon the heavenly man. The Cross is the divine
school of patience; the school of self-abnegation; the school of penance;
the school of charity. The foot of the Cross where Mary stood with John,
and where the prostrate Magdalen wept her loving grief, is the great
school of humility, where the soul is purified and brought to God. There
for ever sounds the great command of the Divine Master, "Learn of Me, for
I am meek and humble of heart."


    Humility the Receptive Foundation of the Divine Gifts and Graces

                                   I.

It is impossible to imagine holiness in any of God's creatures without
humility and purity. For as chastity is the body's purity, humility is the
soul's purity, and purity is the first condition of sanctity.

The more humble and pure a soul is, the more she looks away from herself
into the perfect type of holiness in whose light she sees nothing in
herself but the gifts of God and her own defects.

Humility is the virtue that measures our failures from justice, and our
distance from the Eternal Justice, and that labors to make and to keep us
truthful and honest within ourselves and before God.

What God seeks in man, what He loves in man, what He rewards in man is
humility.

                                   II.

St. Paul calls the true Christian God's building and God's husbandry. He
lays in us the foundation of faith that we may know Him, of hope that we
may desire Him, and of charity that we may love Him, serve Him and rejoice
in Him. But this can only be done in a soul that is duly disposed. For God
cannot build a divine edifice on an earthly foundation, not upon
self-love, not upon self-elation, not upon self-seeking, not upon hollow,
delusive, revolting pride; not upon animal concupiscence. A building upon
such quicksands would soon be swallowed up. All this creation of our own,
if anything so vain ought to be called a creation, must be swept away. And
why? That God may find His own creation, and not a mere falsified creature
made into a lie by vanity and pride, but His own creature as He made it,
pure and simple, and duly subject to Him, that He may work what is good
and holy on His own foundation.

We are not created with virtue, but with nature; we are not created with
grace; that must be given to our nature.

                                   III.

Empty yourself, and see that I am God."(Psalm lxxii, 20-28.) Humility is
the animated capacity of the soul, vacated of self-seeking, and looking to
God with desire to be filled with His light, grace and goodness.

God will not throw away His noble gifts upon those who cannot be made
worthy of them even by the gifts themselves. If the soul is not subject to
God as well as open, she cannot receive the grace of the Christian
virtues.

Frail as man is, humility will make a foundation in him strong enough for
God to raise an edifice upon it that shall last for eternity. The progress
of humility is the progress of the soul. We may know the extent of the
grace that is given us by the strength of our humility. Our very
perfection is humility. The gifts and prerogatives conferred on the
Blessed Virgin were all given to her humility; this she expressly declares
in her Canticle of gratitude.


                On the Magnanimous Character of Humility

                                   I.

Christian magnanimity is a most generous virtue, because it is essentially
opposed to selfish considerations. It is greatness of soul opposed to
littleness of soul. It is also concerned with security or tranquillity,
which rests with a sincere conscience on God.

Great generosity gives to every virtue the quality of magnanimity, because
generosity proceeds from greatness of soul, great in aiming to please God,
and to do Him honor. The sons and daughters of the Eternal King, ought to
have great souls, they ought to be ready to do great things for His honor
and glory.

He is magnanimous who rudely mortifies his senses, giving no more to the
body than it needs, that the spirit may hold command, and be free, and the
soul filled with good things. He is magnanimous who will not let his soul
be ruffled by offensive words or violent deeds. He is greatminded who has
his chief conversation with the eternal truth and justice. Why should that
truth be always near us, and we commonly far away, unless from our
little-mindedness? He is great-minded who keeps himself in the Divine
Presence, and is never long away from the sense of the Eternal God. God is
always with us, why should we not always be with God? The great souls of
all ages have walked with God.

Soft and pusillanimous souls are too weak to walk steadfastly before God
through the pilgrimage of life; but the great-souled are subject from
their inmost heart to God, accounting that nothing can be greater for them
than to be in the hands of God. TO be great-souled is to be full of faith,
of a faith that so lights up the eternal world to them, that the mortal
things of this world fade before their eyes like dying flowers. The
great-souled are magnanimous in sacrificing the love of self to the love
of God, until all their strength flows into charity. Happy they who are
released from bondage to themselves, that they may be large and free in
the generous atmosphere of light and grace. All that we require is that
the soul be open and generous. Humility opens the soul, charity makes her
generous.

                                   II.

For nigh two thousand years the world has known the Son of God in human
nature.

Christ Jesus was the perfect man in perfect union with God, the model of
manhood to all men, most perfect in magnanimity as in all virtues, yet the
world could not understand Him; so very different is the Divine from the
human view of magnanimity.

Although both heathen and Christian magnanimity aim at making the soul
great, and that by seeking great things and despising little things, there
is an immeasurable distance between them, which is still visible in the
man of the world as compared with the servant of Christ. The man who
prefers himself to God, or the things of this world to the things of God,
or the interests of time to the interests of eternity, or the being
honored by men to the being honored by God; not great-souled, but
little-souled.

The sublime way of humility is, that a man be poor in himself and rich in
God.


                     On the Detestable Vice of Pride

                                   I.

As pride is the root of all evil, the vice of vices, and destruction of
the virtues, it is the chief enemy of God and of man. It contradicts the
whole reason of humility. It is not only irrational, as all sins are, but
it is an uncreaturely sin, which other sins are not.

The proud man does not behave like one whom God has recently created from
nothing, and whom He may summon to His presence at any hour. He acts as
though he were not dependent on God, and as if what he is, and has, were
not altogether owing to the divine will and bounty. This vice is so
thoroughly opposed to the nature and condition of man, as well as to the
rights and claims of God, and is so destructive of all spiritual good,
that God has proclaimed to us this warning in His Scripture, "Pride was
not made for man."

                                   II.

The greatness of the soul is her capacity for God. A soul without the
Spirit of God is an existence without its object, a mere failure from the
reason of its existence, like a house that is never inhabited, or a body
that is never animated. The soul can only be perfected, as the very
constitution of her nature is an image of God, in so far as she possesses
the life of God.

Sin is an aversion from God and a conversion to the creature, accepted as
a good in place of God against all reason and justice; and pride is the
aversion from God in all sin.

Inordinate self-love is the cause of pride.

                                   III.

From the beginning to the end of the Holy Scriptures, we shall find if we
study them attentively, one fundamental truth, and one unceasing
admonition. We hear it in Paradise, we see it on the Cross.  It runs
through the sacred histories, is loud in the prophets, frequent in the
sapiential books, continuous in the Gospels, and rises in many pages of
the Apostolic writings. This fundamental truth instructs us to know, this
constant admonition exhorts us to act on the belief, that what God accepts
from man is humility, and that what He rejects is pride. His blessings are
for the humble, His maledictions are for the proud. In every virtue it is
humility that He rewards, in every vice it is pride that He punishes. And
when we remember that it is humility that subjects the soul--and the
virtues to God, and that it is pride that sends the soul away from God,
and inflames the vices with its malice, we shall see that it cannot be
otherwise.

Let us, then, entreat of God with our whole powers, that in His mercy He
would deliver us from pride, and would grant us the inestimable gift of
humility, that we may not follow the evil spirits in their pride to
destruction, but Christ, the Divine Master of humility, to sanctification.
Which may God in His goodness grant us now and for ever. Amen.


                       The World without Humility

                                   I.

The light of reason is sufficient to teach the knowledge of God, but not
to bring man into union with his Creator. For the light, naturally
implanted in the human mind, bears witness to God, and the conscience is
His voice. But the pride that is in man separates him from God, turns his
soul from the light, corrupts his interior sense, and smites him with
spiritual blindness.

In the Scriptures and the Church we learn that the true progress of man is
towards God, and that the path of this progress is upwards to greater
truth and higher justice.

But the heathen world teaches us the terrible lesson of the final end of
false progress, of progress away from God through the dreary downward path
by the ways of negation and false liberty. First, the sense of dependence
on God is lost, and so the virtue of humility departs. Then man forgets
his Creator, forgets Him until he no longer knows that he is a creature,
and so the intellectual principle of humility disappears from his mind.
Pride, then, remains master of his heart without a rival, but still
wanting a God, though a God consistent with his license, he begins to
deify the creature.
                                    
                                   II.

The rejection of the humility of faith and of the Gospel, is rapidly
bringing the world at large to the old heathen conditions of thought and
conduct, and to the old heathen confusion of substituting the powers of
the world for the sovereignty of God. This is manifested in many ways.
Again, the idolatries of the modern world are in various respects more
gross than the idolatries of the ancient world. For the ancient world
idealized nature, and, however erroneously, still associated that nature
with some ideal of the divine, and ascribed divine attributions to its
departed heroes; but the modern idolatries are given to the gross,
unidealized facts and products of nature. and to human inventions, without
having associated any divine ideal with their powers; the ancient world
had a sense of religion, however corruptly applied. But modern heathenism
has dismissed every sense of the divine, and has given its devotion to the
bare powers and phenomena of nature; or to the worship of poor fallen
humanity; to the deification of accumulated wealth; to the veneration of
mechanical inventions; to the cultivation of material luxury; and to the
superexaltation of pride, independence and self-reliance. Whatever a man
seeks, honors, or exalts more than God, that is the God of his idolatry.
There is no need of temples, altars or statues for material, mental or
social idolatry; whatever is preferred in mind and heart to God, whatever
is chosen as the chief end of man's pursuit in place of God, constitutes
the idolatry of these times.

                                   III.

Modern states have certainly not claimed divinity for themselves like the
old heathen Government; their tendency is to discard religion as a
foundation, and to remove its sanctions from beneath their constitutions
and laws Hence the ever-growing tendency to substitute temporary
expediency for the fixed principles of wisdom, and the unstable voice of
the multitude for the maxims of experience and the long foresight of
prudence. There is everywhere visible an enormous jealousy of the
authority of religion over the souls of men; and like the heathens of old,
the ambition of States is to reign alone, and to have no power above their
own in the world. In nothing is this shown more than in those secular
systems of education held in the hands of the State, in which all minds
shall be trained by compulsion upon the mind of the State, after the
fashion of the Spartans, leaving the rights of God and of the family out
of consideration, and reducing all minds to one dead level of rationalism.

                      On the Foolishness of Vanity

                                   I.

Vanity, or vain-glory, is the off-spring of pride, and the eldest daughter
of that detestable vice. Pride is her father, self-love is her mother,
and cobwebs are her clothing. She is such a light, fond thing, that were

it not that her seductions weaken and undermine the best-formed minds and
hearts both of men and women, for her own sake she would be unworthy of
any serious consideration. A man or woman given up to vanity is filled
with light follies unworthy of the dignity of the soul and the noble end
for which the soul is created. It may be more secret, as a rule, in men
than in women, but it is not the less dishonest for that reason.

The word vanity sounds of things hollow, shallow and trifling; but that is
no trifle which makes the soul light and trivial, and unrobes her of her
dignity.

Every creature has in it a natural vanity, because created from nothing,
and unless supported by God, of its own nature it would go back to
nothingness. It is vain also, because by the mere force of its own nature
no creature can come to its final end.

                                   II.

The worst effect of vanity is that it makes the soul empty and inane. It
not only destroys good but leads to evil As nothing in human nature is so
sensitive as vanity, there is nothing that suffers more. It is easily
wounded, often mortified, and frequently disappointed. What vanity tempts
is the empty soul, and the soul inflated-with the ruinous pride of
ambition.

The remedy for this disorder is in the exercise of that most sincere of
virtues which wars against pride and all its offspring, and which bears
the name of holy humility.


                          The Humility of Faith

                                   I.

Our life begins in utter ignorance of all things, and our mind is first
opened by the instinctive faith that we place in those around us. Without
this faith we could make no beginning of knowledge.  The simple, open,
confiding spirit of childhood enables us to learn much in a short time.
But youth advances in knowledge through faith in the teacher as well as
childhood. We are now speaking of human faith. There are three moral
elements in this teachableness. The first is the consciousness of
ignorance, which is an element of natural humility. The second is the
opening of the mind to the teacher, which is a second element of humility.
The third is the belief given to the teacher, which is a third element of
humility. This is the human way of knowledge; it begins with faith, and
the greater part by far of every one's knowledge has no other ground than
faith.

                                   II.

The principles of divine faith are totally different from the principles
of human faith. Human faith rests on the testimony of man; divine faith on
the testimony of God.

The natural man cannot understand divine faith; he must be prepared for
it, and God alone can prepare him.

As the truth revealed by God is above all created nature, and is divine,
the grace of God must dispose the soul for its reception; and this
disposition is obtained not by study but by prayer, not by disputation but
by humility.

Faith is the first light, the heralding light, the foundation placed in us
of what in its final perfection will be the beatific vision of God. It is
the beginning of the eternal ways in us, the commencement of our union
with God, and is compared in the Scriptures to a first espousal of the
soul with God: "I will espouse thee to Me in faith."(Osee i, 20.) It is
the first thing that makes us acceptable to God, for as Paul says,
"Without faith it is impossible to please God."(Hebrews x, 6.) We please
Him by the humility with which we acknowledge Him to be the fountain of
truth, and subject ourselves to Him as the children of His truth.

                                   III.

Faith is by its very nature a subjection of the mind and will to God as He
is the Sovereign Truth, a subjection to His divine authority as the
illuminator and teacher of the soul, and a subjection to the truth which
He teaches by revealing. Moreover, as a test and trial of this subjection
to Him, God is pleased to require that this subjection of faith shall be
openly made and manifested before all men, by our open submission to the
Church which He has appointed to represent His authority, and to the voice
of her teaching, and to her ministry of grace, as exercised in His name
and by His power. This is not only faith, but the humility of faith,
because it is the subjection of the mind and heart to the authority of
God, and to His truth in the way that He imposes and prescribes.

Humility must remove pride and open the soul that the grace of faith may
enter.

                                   IV.

What prevented such numbers of those who followed our Divine Lord, and,
attracted by curiosity, heard His words and saw His mighty power in His
miracles, from believing in Him? Our Lord Himself has proclaimed the three
causes of their unbelief: their pride, their love of this world's
interests, and their, human respect. And He proclaimed the two conditions
which would alone enable them to follow Him as disciples, and to become
members of His kingdom. These were humility and self- abnegation.

Humility, then, is the groundwork of faith, and faith the groundwork of
the other Christian virtues, which are all exercised in the light of
faith. Humility frees the soul from pride and error, faith fills her with
light and truth; humility opens the soul that faith may enter; humility
brings us to the knowledge of ourselves, and faith to the knowledge of
God. But the knowledge of God brings so great an increase to the knowledge
of ourselves, when we use that knowledge rightly, that humility may be
said to rest on faith as much as faith rests on humility.

The force and wisdom of faith is the love of God and our neighbor. For
charity is the light of faith, and faith is the light of charity.

Wherefore let us cultivate humility, that we may have a larger soul for
faith and charity; and faith, that we may have a greater light from God
and deeper knowledge of the eternal mysteries, and charity, that we may
obtain the fruit of faith and humility through the closer union of our
soul with God. But faith is cultivated by prayer, and by meditation, and
by contemplation, and by living, and thinking, and acting in the light of
faith, and in the presence of God.


                       On the Schools of Humility

                                   I.

Every science is founded upon certain fixed and unchangeable principles of
truth, and is guided by rules that spring from those principles. The
science of humility rests upon the knowledge of God and of oneself; it
fills the whole distance between the creature and the CREATOR. The Giver
of this science is God, whose light descends into our interior, and shows
us what we are in His sight, and what we ought to be. Hence the science of
humility is profound, descending as well as ascending beyond the sphere of
human comprehension; for the depths of the soul are unfathomable and the
heights of God are unattainable in this day of probation. We must,
therefore, learn the great laws of humility from God, who has sent us His
SON to teach them, who is himself their great example, and whose Cross is
lifted up as the beacon-flame of His doctrine over the whole troubled sea
of human life.

                                   II.

There is one unrivaled master in every science, and our Lord Jesus Christ;
the Supreme Master of Humility.

But the science of humility is not humility; the science only provides the
knowledge and the rules for its exercise. Humility is a virtue, and
belongs to practice; it is a divine art or discipline exercised in the
deeper regions of the soul. By this discipline the soul is opened,
enlightened, purified and invigorated to act with freedom in the gifts of
God.

The rules that guide the science of humility spring from all the relations
that ought in justice to exist between the soul and God.

                                   III.

The Church has her great schools of humility in her Monastical and
Religious institutions. They may be properly called the schools of the
Beatitudes, devoted as they are to the methodical cultivation of the
divine counsels that were delivered to mankind by the Son of God. They are
founded on the virtues of humility and charity; their system of training
is based upon humility; and their discipline is perfected in the exercise
of that virtue, whose spirit pervades the Beatitudes as it begins with the
first of them, and whose true disciples are the choice and privileged
portion of the Church of God.


                On Humility as the Counterpart of Charity

                                   I.

Let us ascend in mind through the grace of God to the Divine Fountain of
all charity. God is charity; charity is the life and perfection of His
being. What an infinitude of life and love is expressed in these three
little words: God is charity. As the shell on the sandy shore cannot
contain the ocean that rolls round the world; as the laboring breast of
man cannot contain the pure and boundless ether that fills the heavens; as
the body of man could not pass into the intense conflagration of the sun
without instant destruction; neither can the soul of man embrace,
comprehend or enter into the infinite charity of God. Yet some drops of
the ocean are in the shell; some little modified breath of that ether is
in the breast of man; and some tempered rays of the warmth of that sun are
in our earthly frame. Some created rays from His uncreated charity has God
also deigned to impart to the soul of the humble Christian, which are full
of divine life and love; and in virtue of that sublime gift, the moment
the words are sounded in his ears, he knows and feels to his inmost core
that God is charity.

                                   II.

There is no other reason for the existence of this world than the charity
of God and the communication of His charity. The world was made for man,
man for the soul, the soul for charity, and charity unites the soul with
God. From charity God created the world, and by charity He perfects the
end for which the world was made, for that end is the happiness of souls
possessed of charity.

There is a kind of life in the soul without charity, but it is not the
life for which the soul was made, not true life, but initiatory and mere
infantile life, which is life in pain and sorrow from want of our true
life.

                                   III.

Humility disposes the soul and prepares the way for charity, and greater
humility prepares and disposes the soul for greater charity. True humility
never was, never is, and never can be without charity. Humility is the
sacrificial element in all sincere love. For as love is the transfer of
our affection from oneself to another, it includes a surrender of
self-love, and this surrender is humility. But when we give up our love
from ourselves to God, this giving up of our love of self to God is
humility, and the love that we give to God is charity.

To humble souls--for they alone are capable--the grace of charity will
never be wanting; for the God who is charity does not mock His children,
but when He commands them to love Him with their whole heart and soul and
strength and mind, He gives them the charity by which they may love Him.

True charity to our neighbor is to love him, whether friend or foe, as we
love ourself, in God, unto God, and for God's sake. For the charitable
love of our neighbor is embraced in the love of God, proceeds from the
love of God, and ends in the love of God.

Nothing makes us more like to God than to forgive those who offend and
injure us; and we may certainly obtain more grace and glory from God
through persecution than through kindness if we know how to use it
rightly. Of this true test of charity our Lord gave us the example in His
conduct to the traitor Judas.

Charity is the way to man as well as to God. It conciliates all
intelligences. And though there may be much excitement in what the world
calls pleasure, there is no solid joy of life or peace of heart except in
charity. "He who abideth in charity, abideth in God, and God in him."



                           CHRISTIAN PATIENCE

                                 Part II

                                PATIENCE


                    The Work of Patience in the Soul

                                   I.

The perfection of the Christian soul consists in that complete and
exquisite charity whereby we love God above all things, and our neighbor
as ourselves, for the love of God. This love, this charity that perfects
the soul, is the sublimest gift that we can receive from God in this our
exile, because God Himself is charity, and the life of God is charity. By
charity God lives in us and we in Him.

The love of God is our spiritual life; it makes the will good, the
affections good, the soul good, and the work of the soul good. Without the
Charity of God we are nothing. Woe, then, to that false science which puts
matter before spirit, sense before conscience, darkness before light and
the creature before God, and professes to find the cause of light and
love, those sublimest gifts of the eternal charity of God, in the lowest
and least spiritual elements of His creation. It is an awful proof of the
extent to which cultivated intellects, lost to charity, can be gained to
pride, and of the utter perversion of that light of intelligence which
their minds have received from God.

                                   II.

The grace of patience is given with the grace of charity, as well to
protect it as to bring it to perfection. True patience for the love of
God's therefore the highest test and most evident proof of the presence of
a noble degree of charity, because it can only be obtained even with the
help of grace, by dint of labor, self-combat and effort; but we have the
sensible result in the possession of oneself and in peace of soul.

The soul cannot possess herself when she is held in the possession of her
mortal senses, appetites or passions, or when held in bondage to creatures
that are less than herself, and that trouble, degrade and divide the soul,
and take off her mind and will from what is greater and better than
herself. She can only possess herself in God through charity and patience,
in love adhering to God, in patience persevering in that adherence despite
of all the perturbations and fears of her inferior nature.

                                  III.

So intimate is the connection between patience and humility, that neither
of these virtues can make much progress with out the other; nor can
charity advance towards its perfection without their aid.

To the spiritual man patience is more essential than food, for food
strengthens the body, and preserves it from weakness, but patience
fortifies the soul, and without it no virtue can be firm and solid. But as
we are bound to take more care of the soul than of the body, it is evident
that we ought to be more solicitous for patience than for food.

God is our patience, our fortitude, and our strength, provided we rest our
souls on Him, adhere to Him, are subject to His strengthening influences,
and work with them in loyal co-operation.

Patience is the tonic medicine of our enfeebled nature; it fortifies the
will, soothes down the irritabilities that derange the soul, braces the
powers into unity, and gives stability to all the virtues. As the tree
obtains its strength from being rooted in the ground, the soul, which is
the tree of virtue, obtains her strength from patiently adhering to God.

Patience is concerned in all that we have to resist, in all that we have
to deny ourselves, in all that we have to endure, in all that we have to
adhere to, and in all that we have to do. Wherever patience fails, the act
is weak, and the work imperfect.


             On the Nature and Object of Christian Patience

                                   I.

The first thing required to be understood is that patience is an immediate
exercise of the will, which is the spring of all free and moral actions.
It must not, therefore, be confounded with the sentiments, sensibilities
or feelings, because it is a pure act of the will. When the will rests on
God, looks to God and draws strength from God, that patience is generated
which resists all evils and disorders, gives us the possession of
ourselves, and keeps the soul in peace. "Be thou, O my soul, subject to
God, for from Him is my patience."(Psalm lxi, 6.)

                                   II.

The first movements of impatience, the first uneasiness of
dissatisfaction, are warnings to patience to be upon its guard, lest
trouble arise to disturb the soul and take hold of the will. If we calmly
look down from the superior soul upon the first movements of irritation or
impatience, nothing can appear more contemptible; and under the rebuke of
the gaze of our interior eye they vanish in shame.  The breath of patience
will disperse the little cloud of trouble and discontent that moves in our
lower nature, but if left to itself it will quickly grow on what it feeds
upon, and will envelop and fill the soul with anger and vexation. For
anger is a brooding vice that feeds on sensitive self- love and imaginary
wrong far beyond the original offense, if, indeed, offense has been given.

There is nothing that drives us to impatience so vehemently, or throws us
into greater interior disorder, than an injury, or the imagination of an
injury, which is far more frequent than real injury. For many things are
said and done without the least intention of injury; some from quickness
of tongue, some from inadvertence or thoughtlessness, some in good-natured
jest, some from good intentions, some from mere imprudence; and no one has
any right to take any of them in bad part, and so commit himself to anger,
grief and sadness. But if anyone should falsely or maliciously assail our
good name and reputation--a mode of detractation not limited alas! to the
children of this world--let us in that case keep our magnanimity, that our
virtue may be stronger than another's vice, and that our patience may
suffer no loss by reason of another's improbity. Rather should we rejoice
in the Lord that He has called us by these means to greater justice, which
is commonly born, receives its growth, and obtains perfection among
injuries and insults.

                                   III.

When things are at their worst according to the world, if the calamity is
rightly used, they begin to be at their best according to God. All things
are in God's hands, to give or take as He chooses; and an immortal soul is
more precious in His sight than all that the world can give. When He
strips a soul of earthly things, He calls upon that soul to look to Him
and to trust in His care and providence.

There is nothing really lost so long as God is with us, nothing,
therefore, to be despaired of. As long as we are simple, upright, fearing
God and departing from evil, placing our hope in God and not in the
prudence of the world, He who has care of His servants will turn their
calamities into blessings.

The only good we have that is excellent and imperishable is our soul, and
the good which God gives to the soul. But by nothing except our own will
can the soul or its good suffer injury. No one can be spiritually injured
except by himself. So long as one possesses one's soul in patience, no one
can take any part of that good away from us. We can only lose the good of
the soul by not holding to it with constancy, and we thus sin by losing
patience.

                                   IV.

Sadness is the most selfish of all selfish things, and the very essence of
self, eating and consuming the very heart of virtue. When sadness is much
indulged in, there follows a contraction of mind, a weakening of the
soul's power, a dissolving of the heart's strength, and an embittering of
the spirit, which causes restless discomfort, and brings forth indignation
and melancholy.

God knows what we stand in need of far better than we know ourselves. Our
trials are the fatherly dispositions of His providence, and it is idle to
fix our mind on human causes, when you are ruled in the results that
affect us by the one Divine Cause. They are brought upon us for our
probation, the correction or the expiation of our sins. They refine away
those noxious humors, the products of self-love and sloth, that obstruct
and impede the generous flow of spiritual life. They plant in us the
ground seed of merit, and prepare the rewards of endurance. They make us
generous in conforming our will to the will of God. Hence the cheerful
endurance of trials and sufferings is a virtue truly sublime, reaching its
heroic degrees in the martyrs and confessors of God. We are made to enjoy
God.  But we must be purified before we can be sanctified; and we must
deserve God, as far as we are able, by becoming more like to His Incarnate
SON, crucified in spirit as well as in body.

                                    V.

Be it understood and remembered that the darkness of trial is not evil,
that dryness of spirit is not sin, that confusion of mind is not malice.
They are invitations to patience, calls to resignation, beckonings to the
healing cross, admonitions to be humble and obedient to the will of God.
But if in our interior trials we lose patience, then we fall into sadness,
and so become weak, troubled and discouraged. The remedy for sadness is
prayer. God is secretly present with the suffering soul, and in reward for
patience she receives a secret strength and peace.


                    On Patience as a Universal Virtue

                                   I.

One color cannot make a picture, nor one virtue a saint; many colors unite
and blend their shades to form a beautiful work of art, and many virtues
unite and blend together in happy mixture to make a beautiful soul.

All the Christian virtues live in the light of faith, all look to hope,
all obtain their life from the love of God. They are founded in humility,
sustained by fortitude, strengthened and protected by patience.

A soul given to impatience loses strength from every virtue and weakens
her hold on all that is good; she has not the spiritual nerve to hold
herself together; for in the impatient soul there is a restlessness, a
wavering, a want of spiritual fiber, a swerving from good intention, and a
want of steadfastness in action that disturbs the soul.

                                   II.

All the present conditions of life seem to combine in making men restless
and unstable. Most men have become eager for novelty and change, and they
live so much outside themselves as to neglect or even abandon the interior
good of their souls. The tree of knowledge of good and evil has been
shaken for its fruits, and if the knowledge of good has fallen to those
who are inclined to good, the knowledge of evil has fallen in great
abundance to those who are inclined to evil. We live in the midst of a
restless, impatient and fevered life, that more than ever demands for our
security patience of will and stability of mind.

                                   III.

Food is not more essential to strength of body than patience is to
strength of soul; and God in His goodness makes us conscious of our
weakness, that we may be induced to seek the means of strength.  What God
loves and approves in us is the cheerful and loving patience that we put
into our duties, because that is the spirit of charity, and expresses the
amount of charity with which we serve Him.  Every new restraint that we
put upon the hurry and impetuosity of our excitable nature IS a reduction
to order, a power gained, a weakness removed, a further subjection of
nature to grace, a step in the way of peace, that makes us less unlike to
God. The secret of cheerfulness and content is in the freedom of spirit
obtained by the conquest of the body.

                                   IV.
                                    
There is also an impatience with oneself; and who is not acquainted with
that infirmity? It may have its beginning in some venial fault or error
into which we have slipped or glided with no great deliberation. But the
failure has wounded our self-love, and produced an interior annoyance and
vexation, which is far worse than the original fault. Like throwing away
the medicine when the disease appears, patience is given up at the very
moment when wanted to cure the infirmity. Had we taken to that steadying
virtue at once, the mischief would have been stayed; but the shame and
humiliation of failure is allowed to disturb the heart, to discomfort the
soul, and to bring on a certain sadness that goes from one act of interior
impatience to another, doing more harm than a hundred of those faults from
which this disorder is allowed to rise.

Patience would have purged the sin, and would have saved you from it in
future. Take hold of patience, or the one fault will bring you others that
are greater in its train.


                         On Christian Fortitude

                                   I.

The greatest moral strength of which the soul is capable comes of the
Christian grace and gift of fortitude, of which patience is a potential
part, that is to say, it agrees with patience in some respects and differs
from it in others. Patience is mostly concerned in overcoming the
restlessness of nature, in enduring adversities, in resisting temptations,
and in subduing or keeping away impatience, anger or sadness. Fortitude is
a braver and a stronger virtue, is more deeply woven into the
constitutions of the soul, and is concerned with difficult action as well
as with difficult endurance. Fortitude is required to face great dangers
bravely, to undertake great works beset with difficulties, or to undergo
martyrdom or the equivalent of martyrdom. Fortitude is a virtue more
deeply seated in the soul, is more calm in its operations, and less the
subject of consciousness than patience.

                                   II.

The world admires its own heroes, who, for honor, interest or the
excitement which it gives them, undergo great labors, do works that look
large in the eyes of men, encounter great perils with risk of life, or
endure extreme sufferings for some public cause. And though these men are
not infrequently known to have their moral deficiencies and failings, yet
the world exalts them, rewards them with honors and benefits, and erects
monuments to their memory. The hope of these things is often the leading
motive next to the pride that moves within them. But the heroes and
heroines of God, although the world takes little note of them, are far
more wonderful. Armed with Christian fortitude, their hearts are set on
God, in whose strength they do great things, and, whilst wholly
indifferent to the world's opinion, are a spectacle to God and His angels.

In their valiant combats they first conquer themselves, that they may be
in a position to surmount all outward dangers and difficulties. They have
no fears but the fear of God, and no will but His will. Let but the will
of God be known, and, however difficult the task may be to human nature,
no fear, no obstacle will daunt their ardor in accomplishing His will. The
way of God in His servants is the way of fortitude in humility.

                                   III.

Of all the burdens laid upon us in this life the heaviest is our own body,
and this is owing to the just law which God passed upon that old sin,
which is so widely known but so little understood. The soul trembles and
quakes with fear, lest the body be vexed or tormented with pain or labor,
or be taken from us by death. Through the mere custom of always carrying
the body, we love the burden of it, and find it hard to realize that, if
through the help of the law of divine love we govern the body wisely and
well, it will obtain its resurrection and salvation, and its rights will
suffer no injury. But when the soul is turned to God with the fortitude of
love, these things become known and death is not only endured but welcomed
with desire.

There remains the great conflict with pain and suffering, yet nothing of
this kind is of such iron hardness and obstinacy but the fire of love will
master it. When this fire bears up the soul towards God, she soars up
freely and wonderfully on strong and beautiful wings over every torment
inflicted on the body, until her chaste desire brings her to rest in the
embrace of God. Can we ever allow that God would permit the lovers of
money, or of praise, or of sensual pleasure, to become stronger than His
own lovers? Their affections are not love, they deserve no other name than
that of concupiscence or lust; yet they show what a force the soul can put
forth, even in the heated and noxious pursuit of those poor objects. But
this is an argument for us, for if the lovers of these things can endure
so much whilst deserting God for the sake of them, how much ought we to be
ready to endure to save us from the unhappiness of deserting God.

                                   IV.

A Life of self-denial is a martyrdom. The life of the true Christian is a
daily cross and martyrdom.  To deny oneself, to combat the corrupt
propensities of our nature, to keep the desire of Eternity well advanced
before the things of time, and to endure whatever may come upon us,
demands a patience, a fortitude, and a perseverance like the force that
carried the martyrs through their sufferings.

Softness comes of ease and pleasure. A soft and easy life melts away those
energies whereby we endure labors and hardships, and dissolves the force
that encounters and conquers the difficulties that are met with in doing
good works, and especially in doing them in the best and most perfect way.
The proper cure for the contemptible vice of softness is labor and
self-denial.

Whatever befalls you, let it not upset or disturb your mind. The whole
world cannot injure a soul that is fenced with faithful fortitude.


                    On the Patience of the SON of GOD

                                   I.

Of all that God has taught us, and of all we have learnt by experience,
there is nothing that strikes the reflecting mind with more awe and
wonder, or proves more fully His perfection, than God's infinite patience
with His rebellious and sinful creatures. To the eyes of faith, this very
patience is one of the sublimest proofs of the divine perfections.

As the Lord of men, Jesus Christ became their teacher, and He exhorts us
to take up our daily cross, and to follow Him with patience.

Severe to Himself, He is gentle, mild and forbearing to all others. His
meekness is the beautiful flower, His peacefulness the sweet fruit of His
patience. His doctrine is doubted and disputed; He is charged with being
an impostor; He is called a blasphemer; His wonderful works are ascribed
to the devil; His adversaries gnash their teeth, burn with rage and are
prepared to stone Him. Yet His equanimity is unmoved, His meek demeanor is
not altered, the calmness of His peace undergoes no change. Resting on His
union with His Father, the ground of His invincible strength, His divine
fortitude is tried at every point, and at every point His patience is
invincible.

                                   II.

If we enter into the interior of the SON of God, we shall there find a
crucifixion of the soul sustained by a charity most patient because most
divine. Nothing can be so helpful to souls under interior trials as to
enter in spirit into the interior crucifixion of our Blessed Lord. He
thirsts for the salvation of all whom by His Incarnation He has made His
brethren; and the resistance that He meets with from the pride of
self-seeking wills causes Him the greatest anguish of spirit.

Whenever we draw near to the suffering SON of GOD, and put our heart into
that furnace of love and patience, we receive a light, an affection, and
an unction that soothes all sorrows into peace, cleanses the soul from
evil, and comforts her with a cordial strength and an ever-increasing
desire of the Eternal Good. The world is full of mysteries; the soul is
full of mysteries; Heaven is all mystery to us earthly creatures. But
whoever embraces the Cross with open heart finds therein the explanation
of a thousand mysteries.

                                   III.

We profess to be the patient followers of the patient Son of God. Do we
understand how deep that patience goes which rests the humanity of Christ
upon the firm foundation of His divinity, and gives to His human will the
strength to hold to the will of His Father, unmoved and undisturbed in its
peace and self-possession by all that men can say or do against Him? Do we
understand the profundity of that patience which refrains from every
egotistical self-assertion, however grossly He is misjudged, however
ignominiously He is insulted? He only glorifies His Heavenly Father,
declares His unity with His Father, and equally declares that He can do
nothing without His Father. Yet He calls upon us to be the imitators of
His patience, to rest for strength on Him; to take up our daily cross and
follow Him; to refrain from our selfish egotism; and in patience to
possess our souls.

As the patient sufferings of our Lord were the cause of His glory, the
like patience in sufferings will bring us to His glory.


                On Patience as the Discipline of the Soul

                                   I.

What is it to hold our soul in our own possession? As we have not our
resources from ourselves, because we are not created for ourselves but for
God, we cannot possess our soul except in God. We possess our mind in the
light of His truth, and our will in the grace of His love. Hence when Adam
fell from God he lost the possession of himself. So long as our mind
adheres to God in His truth, and the will adheres to God in His love, we
are in possession of ourselves. But if we follow the seductions of error
we lose the possession of ourselves. As our mortal life is only free and
self- possessed when we live in light and air, our spiritual life is only
free and self-possessed when we live in the truth and love of God.

Patience is the possession of the soul, enabling the will to keep the soul
in peace, and to regulate her actions and desires by the light of truth
and justice, with a constant view to her final end.

Impatience is the beginning of every movement that takes away the soul
from God, and so from her self-possession.

                                   II.

The greatest thing for us is the perfection of our own soul; and the
Saints teach us that this perfection consists in doing our ordinary
actions well. We do them well when we do them patiently and lovingly. We
have to perfect our ordinary actions for the love of God, that we may be
perfect in our human way before our Heavenly Father, as He is most perfect
in His divine way. But it is the patience of charity that makes our
actions perfect. It is not the habit or exercise of patience alone that
gives perfection to our actions, but it is patience proceeding from
charity, and working in the spirit abundance of charity.

                                   III.

HE first rule for acquiring patience is to hold its value in great
estimation, and to have a great desire of it.

The second rule is to begin the exercise of patience with our own
interior, and to direct our chief attention to the controlling of our
interior powers. For this virtue must be strong at home before it can be
strong abroad.

The third rule is the government of the tongue, which is the surest test
of the custody of the heart. Let thought go before speech, not speech
before thought. The tree is known by its fruits, and man by his speech.
Much talkativeness is the sign of a feeble mind, and an undisciplined
will. The tongue is the great disturber of our peace, and of the peace of
other souls.

The fourth rule of patience is to keep all things in their just and due
order. To be careless about the order of external things is the sign of an
ill-regulated mind, St. Bonaventure says.

The fifth rule is to bear patiently with those whose tempers are infirm,
and to endure their tempers with charitable kindness.

The sixth rule is to manage our own infirmities of temper wisely. The
provocation may arise within ourselves, or may come from the voice or
conduct of another. Whichever it may be, the true cause of evil temper is
always in oneself. One who is ,habitually recollected in God cannot easily
be moved to anger. Resting the soul on her divine foundation, he enjoys a
peace which makes the soul quickly sensible of the first movements of
disturbance, and quick to turn from them, so that they cannot take hold of
the superior soul.

The seventh rule is given by St. Paul: "Be not overcome by evil, but
overcome evil by good."(Romans xii, 21.)

The eighth rule of patience is to bear our own interior trials, crosses,
and aridities with peace and resignation.

The ninth rule of patience, and one of very great importance, is to bear
patiently with one's own faults and failures. Unless we bear our failings
with patience they will lead us into numberless faults.

The tenth and last rule is that of the perfect, who find a cheering joy in
trials, contradictions, and sufferings, not only because they are great
helps for advancing towards God upon the groundworks of humility and
patience, but because they can find nothing more conducive to detachment
from all that is not God, nothing more effective in subduing their nature
to the reign of grace. They delight in bearing upon them the marks of
Christ crucified.  This is a degree of fortitude more than human, a
singular gift of the HOLY GHOST, by which the superior will is so closely
united with God as to remove all repugnance to suffering.


            On Patience as the Perfecter of our Daily Actions

                                   I.

That perfection of life consists in doing our ordinary actions well is one
of the wisest maxims of the Saints. Those duties make up the chief sum of
our lives during the time allotted to us in this world. As we owe our life
and time to God, the good Christian has duties at all hours.

The perfection of our ordinary actions depends on high motives, good will
and cheerful patience. High motives give them their value before God; good
will makes them vigorous; cheerful patience makes them orderly, peaceful,
effective and pleasant. Hence the poor man who goes to his daily toils
with good will and cheerful patience for the love of God is a much nobler
person in the sight of God than the man who, from mere human motives,
shines with splendid actions in the sight of the world.

                                   II.

Whatever we do is perfect in proportion to the self-possession with which
we do it, and that self-possession is proportioned to patience. Nothing,
however trifling, can be done well without good judgment. There are fifty
ways of doing anything, but only one perfect way.  Nature is always
inclined to hurry, to run before judgment, but grace is deliberate. To
work fruitfully is to work with a patient will; fretful haste damages both
the work and the workman.

They who are patient with obstacles will be patient when the work runs
smoothly.

There are few greater proofs of a well disciplined interior than to be
able to break off at any time with cheerfulness from one duty and to turn
with equal cheerfulness to another, however unexpected the interruption
may be. It is an effect of that detachment of will that comes of patient
charity.

                                   III.

That our offices of kindness and charity may have all their sweetness,
beauty and consolation, they must proceed with direct simplicity from the
love of God in the heart. The love of God's the most earnest and most
practical of all things; and when it is devoted with sincerity to the
service of our neighbors it places us in a sublime position that has more
of Heaven than of earth in it. We enter into God's charity when we imitate
His patient love towards all that come within our sphere of action.

Beware of anxiety. Next to sin, there is nothing that so much troubles the
mind, strains the heart, distresses the soul and confuses the judgment.
Anxiety is not in the things about which we are anxious. It is caused by
taking our solicitudes and uncertainties into our own interior and there
making them the subject of our troubled, disquieted and overstrained
feelings.

There is but one remedy for anxiety, and that is by using the firm force
of patience to keep the objects of our solicitude in their proper place,
and that place is outside of the feelings and before the mind. Every
advancement in humility and patience removes the causes of anxiety and
trouble, because they all have their roots in the restless impatience of
sensitive self-love.

In all your affairs and responsibilities rest wholly on the providence of
God, who alone can bring your plans to a happy conclusion. Yet do your
best in a peaceful way to follow the guidance of God's providence, and
then be assured that if your trust has been in God, whatever success you
may obtain will be all the more profitable to yourself whatever you
yourself may be inclined to think of it.

Whenever you are perplexed as to what course you should take, if you go
blindly into action, you will be sure to repent of it. Wait for light,
wait with patience, and light will not fail you.


                       Encouragements to Patience

                                   I.

There are two Christian virtues whose names sound unpleasantly to the
sensual man. Humility is one of them, and patience is the other. Self-love
and impatience are cowardly vices, that shrink with insane fear from the
health giving labors of humility and patience.

So completely does the habit of patience form and perfect the character of
the Christian man, so thoroughly does it furnish the test of his faith as
well as of his charity, that St. Paul has not failed to point this out in
his own example to his favorite disciple, Timothy.

What is perfect is unchangeable. The patience of God is unchangeable. But
we, with our little patience, are the subjects of time and change; and
impatience always changes us for the worst.  Change, like death, destroys
what went before; if the change comes from God, it is a happy change; it
makes us better than before. If it comes from impatience, it makes us
worse than before. But whoever by patience adheres to God is saved from
the changes that make us worse by union with the unchangeable good,
whereby we always change to better things.

                                   II.

In your patience you shall possess your soul." Every man is a man in so
far only as he holds the free possession of his soul. Every woman is truly
a woman only in so far as she possesses her soul in peace. The Christian
is so far a true Christian as he possesses his soul in God, so that the
world cannot take hold of him. And the secret of this self-possession is
in the patience which gives him a beautiful resemblance to Christ.

These words, "Thy will be done," when they spring from the surrender of
all to God, bring to the soul a peace and courage that are not without a
tasting of the goodness of God. Why are great trials allowed except to
bring the soul to devout acts of resignation? This pure resignation brings
the soul straight to God, establishes her in God, and makes her
comformable to God. True devotion, therefore, consists in true and most
humble resignation. Those who strive most vigorously against themselves,
though they may leave this world imperfect and have to be purified in the
next, will obtain a much higher place in Heaven than those who have not
striven with the same energy and patience, even though these last should
reach Heaven without any need of purgation.

                                   III.

There is nothing that we suffer for the honor of God, however little it
may be, that is not more serviceable to us than if we possessed the
dominion of the world. But suffering must be unselfish.  God would not
have us suffer anything for His sake that is not both useful and fruitful
to ourselves. However great our trial or affliction may be, the Son of God
bore them first, and permits them for our good.

Christ our Lord not only perfected His own patience by His sufferings, but
He receives all the sufferings endured by His members for His sake,
incorporates them with His own, endows them with His merits, and thus
gives them a communion with His own proportioned to their loving patience.
For in virtue of His grace and love they are made sacred and holy.

                                   IV.

We may sum up the value of patience and resigned suffering in the language
of the devout and learned Blosius.

1.   Nothing more valuable can befall a man than tribulation, when it is
     endured with patience for the love of God, because there is no
     more certain sign of the divine election. But this should be
     understood quite as much of internal as of external trials.

2.   It is the chain of patient sufferings that forms the ring
     with which Christ espouses a soul to Himself.

3.   There is such a dignity in suffering for God's sake, that we
     ought to account ourselves unworthy of an honor so great.

4.   Good works are of great value; but even those lesser pains
     and trials that are endured with peace and patience are more
     valuable than many good works.

5.   Every sorrowful trial bears some resemblance to the most
     excellent Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ, and when it is
     endured with patience, it makes him who endures it a more
     perfect partaker of the Passion of his Lord and SAVIOR.

6.   Tribulation opens the soul to the gifts of God, and when they
     are received tribulation preserves them.

7.   What we now suffer God has from eternity foreseen, and has
     ordained that we should suffer in this way, and not in any other
     way.


                     On the Gifts of the HOLY GHOST

                                    I.

Fortitude is one of the seven gifts of the HOLY GHOST: it is the
strengthening gift, and patience is included in fortitude.

Through the Apostles the HOLY GHOST was manifested to the world in the
inspiration of their preaching, the fortitude of their sufferings and the
wisdom and sanctity of their lives. He is incessantly manifested in the
Church through her wonderful unity, the unchangeableness of her teaching,
the divine gifts of her ministering and the number of her saints.

What a mighty Creator is the HOLY SPIRIT exclaims St. Gregory. He has
only to touch the soul and all is taught.

We owe it to the supreme condescension of God that his HOLY SPIRIT
attaches Himself to His gifts of sanctifying grace and charity. By so
doing He dwells in us, imparts life to us, adopts us, establishes us in
dignity, makes us like to God, and moves us towards God.

The presence of God in the soul gifted with charity is a divine fact, to
be realized by the mind to the utmost. It places the possessor of grace in
a divine order of things that leads up to God and points to His glory.
Take the whole circle of created nature, where grace is not; that nature
is powerless to ascend to God. It follows of necessity that there can be
no proportion of value between nature and grace.

There are two principles of movement then in the Christian soul; one is
the movement of the man, the other is the movement of God. The mere human
virtues move from natural reason; the Christian virtues move from grace.
The gifts of the HOLY GHOST give a higher perfection to the faculties than
the grace of the virtues, raising our spirit to higher things, and
rendering it prompt, vigorous and readily responsive to the divine
influences.

                                   II.

Let the soul understand this thoroughly, and reflect upon it earnestly,
that it is the presence, charity and action of the HOLY GHOST within us
that makes us acceptable to God, when we are faithfully obedient to His
light and inspirations. For what pleases our Heavenly Father in us is His
own Divine Spirit, given to us through the merits of His SON, working in
our nature, and drawing our will and mind to work with Him.

St. Basil compares man to a ship under sail. The ship may be well
constructed and provided, but without the impulse of the wind it cannot
move towards its destination. So man may have sanctifying grace and the
habits of the virtues, but without the moving power of the HOLY SPIRIT he
cannot advance towards God. Without the wind the ship is not at liberty:
without the breathing of the HOLY SPIRIT the soul has not her spiritual
freedom.

If we generously give up our will to the influence of the HOLY SPIRIT, it
will take away all doubting, diffidence, fear, shrinking, inconstancy and
changeableness, wherever the will of God shall manifestly appear.

The honest soul, and as no soul is honest without humility, the humble
soul, then, will ascend in union with the HOLY SPIRIT above all creatures
to worship God with gratitude and praise.

                                  III.

It is said in Proverbs: "Wisdom hath built herself a house, she hath hewn
out seven pillars." This house is the sanctified soul in which the HOLY
SPIRIT dwells, and the seven pillars are the seven luminous and
strengthening gifts that in the living house aspire to God. The seven
gifts are opposed to the seven deadly sins, and they are the life of the
eight Beatitudes. As the heart sends the life's blood through all the
veins and limbs of the body, the HOLY SPIRIT sends His living fire and
unction through all the powers of the soul.

By the gift of understanding the HOLY SPIRIT purifies the eye of the soul,
and leads us into ourselves, where we begin to understand what we are and
what God is. And whilst we subject our understanding to God, His truth
makes us children of light. Moving upwards through that light, we rise
above our senses, above our imagination, above the instincts of our
nature, and enter with intelligence into the presence of God. There we
receive the gift more abundantly in proportion as we die to ourselves; and
from the gift there grows a singular virtue that makes us watchful of
good, and conservative of the light of life. The soul delights in God, and
the interior man is renewed day by day.

                                   IV.

We begin with the gift of fear," says St. Augustine, "and passing step by
step through the intermediate gifts, we reach their consummation at last
in the gift of wisdom." This gift is given in its abundance to the pure of
heart, and is chiefly cultivated in contemplation.

It is the final gift, because it tranquilizes the soul, and makes her
peaceful, fruitful and joyful.


                                On Prayer

                                   I.

The path of prayer is the King's highway from earth to Heaven. Whilst the
body remains on its kindred earth, the spirit ascends on the wings of
grace into that divine region of light and good for which she was created.
This royal path leads the soul into the Eternal Presence, there to plead
her cause with her CREATOR and Sovereign Lord; there to converse in the
humble spirit of child-like affection with her Heavenly FATHER; there to
receive His good and perfect gifts. This royal highway to God was opened
for us by our Lord Jesus Christ, was consecrated by His prayers and
sufferings, and was illuminated by His ascension to Heaven through the
path which He opened. By his Incarnation He bridged the whole distance
between the creature and the CREATOR. He is Himself the way, the light of
the way, and its security. Through Him we have access to the Father, who
answers us with mercy and benignity. "I go to the Father: and whatsoever
you ask the Father in My name, that will I do: that the Father may be
glorified in the SON."(St. John xiv, 13.)

                                   II.

Prayer is, therefore, the noblest and most exalted action of which man is
capable through the grace of God. It is the action of God's created image
seeking union with her Divine Original, and seeking it so that this image
may be healed from offense, and perfected into likeness by the reception
of life from the Eternal Life, and be prepared for beatitude through the
gifts that descend from God's infinite perfection. The voices that reach
the ears of God are not words but desires. If we seek the Eternal Life
with our lips, without desiring that life with our heart, our outcry is
nothing but silence. But when we desire that life from our heart, though
our mouth be silent, in that silence we cry to God.

The great obstacles to prayer are self-love, the inconstancy of the will,
and the sadness that results from self-love and inconstancy. Self-love
draws our sense, thought, and will to ourselves, instead of surrendering
them to God and to the guidance of His HOLY SPIRIT. This causes the will
to vibrate like a pendulum, but in a very unsteady way, between God and
one's self, making the soul restless, impatient, inattentive and
wandering. Yet we cannot look to God and to ourselves at the same time: we
cannot feel after God and after ourselves at the same moment. This is not
pure prayer, but prayer mixed with distractions, self-love and confusion.

                                   III.

The HOLY SPIRIT is the true teacher of prayer, and the liberty of prayer
consists in freely following the divine attraction, which always leads to
greater simplicity, humility, love, patience and union with God. "Commit
thy way to the Lord, and trust in Him.... Be subject to the Lord and pray
to Him."(Psalm xxxvi, 5-7.)

All prayer has one final end, that of our beatitude in God! and all should
be exercised in spirit and in truth. Every kind of prayer leads to
interior recollection according to each one's gift and disposition, and
when this recollection ascends to contemplation, the summit of prayer is
reached Contemplation rises above the senses, above the imagination, above
all processes of the reasoning powers. Collected within herself, the soul
rises above herself, and with a simple view beholds, though "darkly as
through a glass," some manifestation of the beauty, goodness and greatness
of God, which deepens her sense of God. The acts of contemplation are
four: to seek after God, to find Him, to feel His sacred touch in the soul
and to be united with Him and enjoy Him.


                          On Patience in Prayer

                                   I.

As that which is weak is strengthened by resting on what is strong, the
soul is made strong by resting with her interior center upon the
strengthening power of God. "Be thou, O my soul, subject to God: for from
Him is my patience."(Psalm lxi, 6.) What is restless by nature can only be
made calm and peaceful by union with what is calm and peaceful. We obtain
peace from our trouble by union with the God of PEACE. "It is good for me
to adhere to God, to set my hope on the LORD GOD."(Psalm lxxii, 28.) As we
can only obtain stability of mind and heart by union with what is
unchangeable, our soul obtains stability by union with the unchangeable
God. The principle of that union is charity, and God has placed the power
of patience in the gift of charity, that we may be able to adhere with our
spirit to Him in a firm, stable and patient love. "Charity is patient."

Whatever is created is made for an object and an end which is different
from itself, from which it receives its fullness, peace and perfection.
God has created us for Himself, and only by union with God can we receive
our fullness, peace and perfection. This union we seek in prayer, and by
prayer we prepare ourselves for our eternal union with God.

                                   II.

It is of great importance to understand what we ought to put into our
prayer; for the value and merit of our good works depend less on their
show than on the spirit and virtue put into them.

     The first condition of prayer is attention, which word signifies
     a stretching forth. We stretch forth the ear to listen, the eye
     to see and the mind to understand.

     The second condition is humility, whereby the soul is opened and
     made subject to God.

     The third condition is faith in God, and trust that He will hear
     our prayer, and grant us according to His promises.

     The fourth condition is the love of God, which makes our prayer
     generous and acceptable.

     The fifth is obedience to the interior movements of the HOLY
     SPIRIT.

     The sixth is patience. This virtue should be present throughout
     every good prayer.

                                   III.

Let anyone who would feel the value of patient prayer take the "Our
Father" or "The Creed," or a Hymn of the HOLY GHOST and repeat it slowly
and attentively, with the heart on God and the mind on the sense of the
prayer, and he will find, perhaps with some surprise, how much more light
will come to his mind, how much more sweetness to his heart, how much
nearer he will feel himself to God, than when these customary prayers are
little better than gabbled without their full and solemn sense.

Patience is the Queen of the Soul. She is seated on the rock of fortitude.
She conquers, and is never conquered. This virtue is the marrow of
charity. By its presence we know whether the garment of charity with which
we are clothed is the true nuptial garment or not. If this garment have
rents in it, it is an imperfect garment, and impatience will escape
through the rents.

Impatience springs from one of two causes: from spiritual death when the
soul is in mortal sin; from imperfection of life when the root of
self-love is not mortified. Those imperfect souls live by grace, but they
are tender about themselves, sensitive from sensuality and have a soft
compassion for their own weakness. This leads them to murmuring, and to
judging the wills of other persons. All this comes from self-love, and
impatience is the proof of it. They love their own way, and what tongue
can tell the troubles of self-will? In these self-willed persons the eye
of the understanding is obscured; their faith, the very apple of the eye,
is clouded with self-love, and they are unfaithful to their light. The
impatience that follows makes them disobedient; this weakens their
judgment; and this again leads them to murmuring. Although they live in
grace their souls are imperfect; their self-love obscures their sight and
their virtues are imperfect. Impatience is the habitual outcome of
infidelity to what God ordains for us.


                     On the Cheerfulness of Patience

                                   I.

There can be no better proof of a healthy soul than habitual cheerfulness.
Christian cheerfulness is that modest, hopeful, and peaceful joy which
springs from charity and is protected by patience. It is the
well-regulated vigor of spiritual life that throws off all morbid humors
and depressing influences, refusing them a lodgement in the soul devoted
to God. Cheerfulness gives freedom to our thoughts and a generous spirit
to our actions. It makes our services to God acceptable, and our services
to our neighbor grateful. "God loveth the cheerful giver."(2 Corinthians
ix, 7.)

This cheerfulness of soul springs from the divine good which God has
placed within us, which acts within us, and of which we are partakers.
Hence purity of conscience is a great promoter of cheerfulness, for when
the conscience is clean the affections are pure. But the moving cause of
cheerfulness is in the exercise of the virtues, especially as they are the
ready servants of the joy of loving God. Yet even the joy of charity is
very imperfect, and is often troubled, unless that charity be patient.

                                   II.

If we had no greater joys than the world can give the body, or the body
give the soul, we should be poor creatures indeed, nothing but animals. If
we had no greater enjoyment than the material scientists can give us, we
should be unhappy creatures. Poring into matter until they lose sight of
their immortal souls, they materialize their souls, and wish to
materialize us. Losing the power of ascending from the creature to the
CREATOR, by an immense abuse of their intelligence they drown their souls
in their senses, cast a shadow of gloom and sadness over the world, and do
their best to make it a dreary habitation for immortal souls.

The Christian soul lives in communion with God, and to that soul a
prospect is opened into infinite and unchangeable truth. Within that soul
a sense is opened that tastes the infinite and eternal good. What opens
this eye to the soul? The light of faith descending from God. What awakes
this sense in the soul? The grace of charity from the HOLY SPIRIT OF GOD.
Can anything be so cheering to the soul as her growth in truth except her
growth in good? As truth and good come to our soul from God, can anything
secure their increase like prayer and communion with God? By this holy
converse hope is ever growing of greater things to come. Unlike our
converse with the world, it is inexhaustible in expectation of eternal
good.

The children of the world who live for themselves, know nothing of the
enjoyments of the children of grace who live for God. Bent upon the things
beneath them, their enjoyment comes from nothing that is equal to their
spiritual nature; and what they do enjoy contains the seeds of sadness and
decay.  Loving but mortal things with an immortal soul, they pervert the
order of their nature until their desires contradict their wants. The
flowers of their gladness fade and die, and the fruits of sadness come in
their place.

                                   III.

Nothing contributes more to cheerfulness than the habit of looking at the
good side of things. The good side is God's side of them. But even on
their human side, what makes them appear worse than they are is conferred
on them by the envy, jealousy and malice of our hearts, falsely imagining
that what depresses others exalts ourselves. Let patience keep down envy
and repress the fancy of our own superiority.

Cheerfulness implies hope, courage, confidence in God, the turning a deaf
ear to the complaints of self-love, and a certain modest joy in the
consciousness that in the hands of God, "in whom we live, and move, and
have our being," we are safe.

Why should we not rejoice in the good things of God? We can rejoice in the
good things of the senses, why not in the good things of the soul? If the
day is pure and serene we enjoy its gladness.  Why should we not rejoice
in the serene light of truth that shines from Heaven upon our minds? Why
should we not delight in the beautiful gifts of God? Having an Almighty
and most loving Father, let us rejoice in Him. Having a-most loving
SAVIOR, very God of God, who has made Himself our brother, and feeds us
with His life, we ought surely to rejoice in Him. Having the HOLY SPIRIT
OF God with us, dwelling in us with wonderful condescension. making us His
temples, and pouring His love into our hearts, we ought certainly to
answer His love and rejoice in His overflowing goodness. Why should we
ever set a gloomy face against a guest so beautiful and generous?

The great enemy of the soul is not trial but sadness, which is the
bleeding wound of self-love.

"We may always rejoice," observes St. Chrysostom, "if we will only keep
our head a little raised above the flood of human things."

I am typing this treatise in from 'In Pursuit of Gold' by 
'lapidus' (Neville Spearman Limited, 112 Whitfield Street, 
London W1P 6DP, ISBN 0 85435 043 8), without permission. 
This treatise describes the entire process of preparing the 
philosopher's stone. There are three seperate operations 
described here: the preperation of the 'secret fire' (the 
catalyst or solvent which is used throughout the whole work,
without which nothing can be achieved, but which is seldom if
ever mentioned in any alchemical treatise), the preperation
of 'mercury' (a metallic vapor made from antimony and iron, 
said to resemble vulgar mercury (Hg) in appearance, necessary 
in the preparation of the stone) and the preperation of the
stone itself.

These operations are not presented in sequence. The reader will 
note that the language is allusive and recondite, that several 
names are used to refer to the same thing and that one name is 
used to refer to several things. This is, however, an exceptionally 
clear alchemical text.

Artephius is said to have written this in the 12th century. I don't
know (and lapidus doesn't say) who translated it (presumably from
the latin).

comments in [square brackets] are my own; typos are mine, and I have
americanized spellings (color for color etc).everything else has been 
left as I found it, including the idiosyncratic punctuation.

___
                     The Secret Book
                                         Artephius

(1)   Antimony is a mineral participating of saturnine parts, and has
in all respects the nature thereof. This saturnine antimony agrees with
sol, and contains in itself argent vive, in which no metal is swallowed
up, except gold, and gold is truly swallowed up by this antimonial argent
vive. Without this argent vive no metal whatsoever can be whitened; it
whitens laton, i.e. gold; reduceth a perfect body into its prima materia,
or first matter, viz. into sulphur and argent vive, of a white color, and
outshining a looking glass. It dissolves, I say the perfect body, which is
so in its own nature; for this water is friendly and agreeable with the
metals, whitening sol, because it contains in itself white or pure argent
vive.


(2)   And from both these you may draw a great arcanum, viz. a water of
saturnine antimony, mercurial and white; to the end that it may whiten sol,
not burning, but dissolving, and afterwards congealing to the consistence or
likeness of white cream. Therefore, saith the philosopher, this water makes
the body to be volatile; because after it has dissolved in it, and 
infrigidated, it ascends above and swims upon the surface of the water.
Take, saith he, crude leaf gold, or calcined with mercury, and put it into
our vinegre, made of saturnine antimony, mercurial, and sal ammoniac, in 
a broad glass vessel, and four inches high or more; put it into a gentle
heat, and in a short time you will see elevated a liquor, as it were oil 
swimming atop, much like a scum. Gather this with a spoon or feather
dipping it in; and in doing so often times a day until nothing more arises;
evaporate the water with a gentle heat, i.e., the superfluous humidity of
the vinegre, and there will remain the quintessence, potestates or powers
of gold in the form of a white oil incombustible. In this oil the philosophers
have placed their greatest secrets; it is exceeding sweet, and of great virtue
for easing the pains of wounds.

(3)   The whole, then, of this antimonial secret is, that we know how by it
to extract or draw forth argent vive, out of the body of Magnesia, not 
burning, and this is antimony, and a mercurial sublimate. That is, you must
extract a living and incombustible water, and then congeal, or coagulate it
with the perfect body of sol, i.e. fine gold, without alloy; which is done
by dissolving it into a nature [sic? mature?] white substance of the 
consistency of cream, and made thoroughly white. But first this sol by
putrefaction and resolution in this water, loseth all its light and 
brightness, and will grow dark and black; afterwards it will ascend above
the water, and by little and little will swim upon it, in a substance of a 
white color. And this is the whitening of red laton to sublimate it
philosophically, and to reduce it into its first matter; viz. into a white
incombustible sulphur, and into a fixed argent vive. Thus the perfect body
of sol, resumeth life in this water; it is revived, inspired, grows, and is
multiplied in its kind, as all other things are. For in this water, it so
happens, that the body compounded of two bodies, viz. sol and luna, is
puffed up, swells, putrefies, is raised up, and does increase by the
receiving from the vegetable and animated nature and substance.

(4) Our water also, or vinegar aforesaid, is the vinegar of the mountains,
i.e. of sol and luna; and therefore it is mixed with gold and silver, and
sticks close to them perpetually; and the body receiveth from this water a
white tincture, and shines with inestimable brightness. Who so knows how to
convert, or change the body into a medicinal white gold, may easily by the 
same white gold change all imperfect metals into the best or finest silver.
And this white gold is called by the philosophers "luna alba philosophorum,
argentum vivum album fixum, aurum alchymiae, and fumus albus" [white phil-
osophical silver, white fixed mercury, alchemical gold and white (some-
thing)]: and therefore without this our antimonial vinegar, the aurum
album of the philosophers cannot be made. And because in our vinegar
there is a double substance of argentum vivum, the one from antimony, and
the other from mercury sublimated, it does give a double weight and 
substance of fixed argent vive, and also augments therein the native
color, weight, substance and tincture thereof.


(5)   Our dissolving water therefore carries with it a great tincture, 
and a great melting or dissolving; because that when it feels the vulgar 
fire, if there be in it the pure and fine bodies of sol or luna, it
immediately melts them, and converts them into its white substance such
s itself is, and gives to the body color, weight, and tincture. In it also
is a powder of liquefying or melting all things that can be
melted or dissolved; it is a water ponderous, viscous, precious, and worthy
to be esteemed, resolving all crude bodies into their prima materia, or
first matter, viz. earth and a viscous powder; that is into sulphur,
and argentum vivum. If therefore you put into this water, leaves, filings,
or calx of any metal, and set it in a gentle heat for a time, the whole will
be dissolved, and converted into a viscous water, or white oil as afore-
said. Thus it mollifies the body, and prepares for liquefaction; yea, it
makes all things fusible, viz. stones and metals, and after gives them
spirit and life. And it dissolves all things with an admirable solution,
transmuting the perfect body into a fusible medicine, melting, or liquefying,
moreover fixing, and augmenting the weight and color.

(6)   Work therefore with it, and you shall obtain from it what you desire,
for it is the spirit and soul of sol and luna; it is the oil, the dissolving
water, the fountain, the Balneum Mariae, the praeternatural fire, the moist
fire, the secret, hidden and invisible fire. It is also the most acrid 
vinegar, concerning which an ancient philosopher saith, I besought the Lord,
and he showed me a pure clear water, which I knew to be the pure vinegar,
altering, penetrating, and digesting. I say a penetrating vinegar, and the
moving instrument  for putrefying, resolving and reducing gold or silver into
their prima materia or first matter. And it is the only agent in the universe,
which in this art is able to reincrudate metallic bodies with the conservation
of their species. It is therefore the only apt and natural medium, by which we
ought to resolve the perfect bodies of sol and luna, by a wonderful and
solemn dissolution, with the conservation of the species, and without any
distruction, unless it be to a new, more noble, and better form or generation,
viz. into the perfect philosopher's stone, which is their wonderful secret or
arcanum.

(7)   Now this water is a certain middle substance, clear as fine silver, 
which ought to receive the tinctures of sol and luna, so as the may be
congealed, and changed into a white and living earth. For this water needs
the perfect bodies, that with them after the dissolution, it may be congealed,
fixed, and coagulated into a white earth. But if this solution is also their 
coagulation, for they have one and the same operation, because one is not
dissolved, but the other is congealed, nor is there any other water which can
dissolve the bodies, but that which abideth with them in the matter and the 
form. It cannot be permanent unless it be of the nature of other bodies, that
they may be made one. When therefore you see the water coagulate itself with
the bodies that be dissolved therein; be assured that thy knowledge, way of
working, and the work itself are true and philosophic, and that you have done
rightly according to art.

(8)   Thus you see that nature has to be amended by its own like nature; that
is, gold and silver are to be exalted in our water, as our water also with
these bodies; which water is called the medium of the soul, without which
nothing has to be done in this art. It is a vegetable, mineral and animal 
fire, which conserves the fixed spirits of sol and luna, but destroys and
conquers their bodies; for it destroys, overturns, and changes bodies and
metallic forms, making them to be no bodies but a fixed spirit. And it turns
them into a humid substance, soft and fluid, which hath ingression and power
to enter into other imperfect bodies, and to mix with them in their smallest
parts, and to tinge and make them perfect. But this they could not do while
they remained in their metallic forms or bodies, which were dry and hard, 
whereby they could have no entrance into other things, so to tinge and make
perfect, what was before imperfect.

(9)   It is necessary therefore to convert the bodies of metals into a fluid
substance; for that every tincture will tinge a thousand times more in a soft
and liquid substance, than when it is in a dry one, as is plainly apparent in
saffron. Therefore the transmutation of imperfect metals is impossible to be
done by perfect bodies, while they are dry and hard; for which cause sake they
must be brought back into their first matter, which is soft and fluid. It
appears therefore that the moisture must be reverted that the hidden treasure
may be revealed. And this is called the reincrudation of bodies, which is the
decocting and softening them, till they lose their hard and dry substance or
form; because that which is dry doth not enter into, nor tinge anything except
its own body, nor can it be tinged except it be tinged; because, as I said
before, a thick dry earthy matter does not penetrate nor tinge, and therefore,
because it cannot enter or penetrate, it can make no alteration in the matter
to be altered. For this reason it is, that gold coloreth not, until its
internal or hidden spirit is drawn forth out of its bowels by this, our white 
water, and that it may be made altogether a spiritual substance, a white
vapor, a white spirit, and a wonderful soul.

(10)  It behoves us therefore by this our water to attenuate, alter and soften
the perfect bodies, to wit sol and luna, that so they may be mixed other 
perfect bodies. From whence, if we had no other benefit bu this our antimonial
water, than that it rendered bodies soft, more subtile, and fluid, according
to its own nature, it would be sufficient. But more than that, it brings back 
bodies to their original of sulphur and mercury, that of them we may 
afterwards in a little time, in less than an hour's time do that above ground
which nature was a thousand years doing underground, in the mines of the 
earth, which is a work almost miraculous.

(11)  And therefore our ultimate, or highest secret is, by this our water, to
make bodies volatile, spiritual, and a tincture, or tinging water, which may
have ingress or entrance into bodies; for it makes bodies to be merely spirit,
because it reduces hard and dry bodies, and prepares them for fusion, melting
and dissolving; that is, it converts them into a permanent or fixed water. And
so it makes of bodies a most precious and desirable oil, which is the true
tincture, and the permanent fixed white water, by nature hot and moist, or
rather temperate, subtile, fusible as wax, which does penetrate, sink, tinge,
and make perfect the work. And this our water immediately dissolves bodies
(as sol and luna) and makes them into an incombustible oil, which then may
be mixed with other imperfect bodies. It also converts other bodies into the
nature of a fusible salt which the philosophers call "sal alebrot philoso-
phorum", better and more noble than any other salt, being in its own nature
fixed and not subject to vanish in fire. It is an oil indeed by nature hot,
subtile, penetrating, sinking through and entering into other bodies; it is
called the perfect or great elixir, and the hidden secret of the wise 
searchers of nature. He therefore that knows this salt of sol and luna, and
its generation and perfection, nd afterwards how go commix it, and make it
homogene with other perfect bodies, he in truth knows one of the greatest
secrets of nature, and the only way that leads to perfection.

(12)  These bodies thus dissolved by our water are called argent vive, which 
is not without its sulphur, nor sulphur without the fixedness of sol and luna;
because sol and luna are the particular means, or medium in the form through
which nature passes in the perfecting or completing thereof. And this argent
vive is called our esteemed and valuable salt, being animated and pregnant, 
and our fire, for that is nothing but fire; yet not fire, but sulphur; and not
sulphur only, but also quicksilver drawn from sol and luna by our water, and
reduced to a stone of great price. That is to say it is a matter or substance
of sol nd luna, or silver and gold, altered from vileness to nobility. Now
you must note that this white sulphur is the father and mother of the metals; 
it is our mercury, and the mineral of gold; also the soul, and the ferment; 
yea, the mineral virtue, and the living body; our sulphur, and our 
quicksilver; that is, sulphur of sulphur, quicksilver of quicksilver, and
mercury of mercury.

(13) The property therefore of our water is, that it melts or dissolves gold
and silver, and increases their native tincture or color. For it changes 
their bodies from being corporeal, into a spirituality; and it is in this
water which turns the bodies, or corporeal substance into a white vapor, which
is a soul which is whiteness itself, subtile, hot and full of fire. This
water also called the tinging or blood-color-making stone, being the virtue
of the spiritual tincture, without which nothing can be done; and is the
subject of all things that can be melted, and of liquefaction itself, which
agrees perfectly nd unites closely with sol and luna from which it can never
be seperated. For it joined [joins?] in affinity to the gold and silver, but
more immediately to the gold than to the silver; which you are to take special
notice of. It is also called the medium of conjoining the tinctures of sol and
luna with the inferior or imperfect metals; for it turns the bodies into the
true tincture, to tinge the said imperfect metals, also it is the water that
whiteneth, as it is whiteness itself, which quickeneth, as it is a soul; and
therefore as the philosopher saith, quickly entereth into its body.

(14)  For it is a living water which comes to moisten the earth, that it may
spring out, and in its due season bring forth much fruit; for all things
springing from the earth, are endued through dew and moisture. The earth
therefore springeth not forth without watering and moisture; it is the water
proceeding from May dew that cleanseth the body; and like rain it penetrates
them, and makes one body of two bodies. This aqua vite or water of life, being
rightly ordered and disposed with the body, it whitens it, and converts or
changes it into its white color, for this water is a white vapor, and there-
fore the body is whitened with it. It behoves you therefore to whiten the
body, and open its unfoldings, for between these two, that is between the body
and the water, there is desire and friendship, like as between male and
female, because of the propinquity and likeness of their natures.

(15)  Now this our second and living water is called "Azoth", the water 
washing the laton viz. the body compounded of sol and luna by our first
water; it is also called the soul of the dissolved bodies, which souls we
have even now tied together, for the use of the wise philosopher. How precious
then, and how great a thing is this water; for without it, the work could 
never be done or perfected; it is also called the "vase naturae", the belly, 
the womb, the receptacle of the tincture, the earth, the nurse. It is the 
royal fountain in which the king and queen bathe themselves; and the mother 
must be put into and sealed up within the belly of her infant; and that is 
sol himself, who proceded from her, and whom she brought forth; and therefore 
they have loved one another as mother and son, and are conjoined together, 
because they come from one and the same root, and are of the same substance 
and nature. And because this water is the water of the vegetable life, it 
causes the dead body to vegetate, increase and spring forth, and to rise from 
death to life, by being dissolved first and then sublimed. And in doing this 
the body is converted into a spirit, and the spirit afterwards into a body; 
and then is made the amity, the peace, the concord, and the union of 
contraries, to wit, between the body and the spirit, which reciprocally, or 
mutually change their natures which they receive, and communicate one to 
another through their most minute parts, so that that which is hot is mixed 
with that which is cold, the dry with the moist, and the hard with the soft; 
by which means, there is a mixture made of contrary natures, viz. of cold 
and hot, and moist with dry, even  most admirable unity between enemies.

(16)  Our dissolution then of bodies, which is made such in this first water,
is nothing else, but a destroying or overcoming of the moist with the dry,
for the moist is coagulated with the dry. For the moisture is contained under,
terminated with, and coagulated in the dry body, to wit, in that which is
earthy. Let therefore the hard and the dry bodies be put into our first water
in a vessel, which close well, and let them there abide till they be 
dissolved, and ascend to the top; then may they be called a new body, the 
white gold made by art, the white stone, the white sulphur, not inflammable, 
the paradisical stone, viz. the stone transmuting imperfect metals into white
silver. Then we have also the body, soul and spirit altogether; of which 
spirit and soul it is said, that they cannot be extracted from the perfect 
bodies, but by the help or conjunction of our dissolving water. Because it is
certain, that the things fixed cannot be lifted up, or made to ascend, but by
the conjunction or help of that which is volatile.

(17)  The spirit, therefore, by help of the water and the soul, is drawn forth
from the bodies themselves, and the body is thereby made spiritual; for that 
at the same instant of time, the spirit, with the soul of the bodies, ascends
on high to the superior part, which is the perfection of the stone and is
called sublimation. This sublimation, is made by things acid, spiritual,
volatile, and which are in their own nature sulphureous nd viscous, which 
dissolves bodies and makes them to ascend, and be changed into air and spirit.
and in this sublimation, a certain part of our said first water ascends with 
the bodies, joining itself with them, ascending and subliming into one neutral
and complex substance, which contains the nature of the two, viz. the nature 
of the two bodies and the water. and therefore it is called the corporeal and 
spiritual compositum, corjufle, cambar, ethelia, zandarith, duenech, the good;
but properly it is called the permanent or fixed water only, because it flies
not in the fire. But it perpetually adheres to the commixed or compound 
bodies, that is, the sol and luna, and communicates to them the living 
tincture, incombustible and most fixed, much more noble and precious than the
former which these bodies had. Because from henceforth this tincture runs like
oil, running through and penetrating bodies, and giving to them its wonderful
fixity; nd this tincture is the spirit, and the spirit is the soul, and the
soul is the body. For in this operation, the body is made a spirit of a most
subtile nature; and again, the spirit is corporified and changed into the 
nature of the body, with the bodies, whereby our stone consists of a body, a
soul, and a spirit.

(18)  O God, how through nature, doth thou change a body into a spirit: which
could not be done, if the spirit were not incorporated with the bodies, and
the bodies made volatile with the spirit, nd afterwards permanent and fixed. 
For this cause sake, they have passed over into one another, and by the 
influence of wisdom, are converted into one another. O Wisdom: how thou makest
the most fixed gold to be volatile and fugitive, yeah, though by nature it is
the most fixed of all things in the world. It is necessary therefore, to 
dissolve and liquefy these bodies by our water, and to make them a permanent
or fixed water, a pure, golden water leaving in the bottom the gross, earthy,
superfluous and dry matter. And in this subliming, making thin nd pure, the
fire ought to be gentle; but if in this subliming with  soft fire, the bodies
be not purified, nd the gross and earthy parts thereof (note this well) be
not seperated from the impurities of the dead, you shall not be able to 
perfect the work. For thou needest nothing but the thin and subtile part of
the dissolved bodies, which our water will give thee, if thou proceedest with
a slow or gentle fire, by seperating the things heterogene from the things
homogene.

(19)  This compositum then has its mundification or cleaning, by our moist
fire, which by dissolving and subliming that which is pure and white, it cast
forth its feces or filth like a voluntary vomit, for in such a dissolution
and natural sublimation or lifting up, there is a loosening or untying of the
elements, and a cleansing and seperating of the pure from the impure. So that
the pure and white substance ascends upwards and the impure and earthy remains
fixed in the bottom of the water and the vessel. This must be taken away and
removed, because it is of no value, taking only the middle white substance,
flowing and melted or dissolved, rejecting the feculent earth, which remains
below in the bottom. These feces were seperated partly by the water, and are
the dross and terra damnata, which is of no value, nor can do any such service
as the clear, white, pure and clear matter, which is wholly and only to be 
taken and made use of.

(20)  And against this capharean rock, the ship of knowledge, or art of the
young philosopher is often, as it happened also to me sometimes, dashed
together in pieces, or destroyed, because the philosophers for the most part
speak by the contraries. That is to say that nothing must be removed or taken
away, except the moisture, which is the blackness; which notwithstanding they
speak and write only to the unwary, who, without a master, indefatigable 
reading, or humble supplications to God Almighty, would ravish away the
golden fleece. It is therefore to be observed, that this seperation, division,
and sublimation, is without a doubt the key to the whole work.


[the first 20 chapters of this treatise were presented under the heading
'the secret book' (chapter 3 of 'in pursuit of gold'). at this point is
begun chapter 4, 'the wisdom of artephius', which contains the balance of the 
treatise. I feel the division is significant, though I couldn't quite say
why]


(21)  After the putrefaction, then, and dissolution of these bodies, our 
bodies also ascend to the top, even to the surface of the dissolving water, 
in a whiteness of color, which whiteness is life. And in this whiteness,
the antimonial and mercurial soul, is by natural  compact infused into, and
joined with the spirits of sol and luna, which seperate the thin from the
thick, and the pure from the impure. That is, by lifting up, by little 
and little, the thin and the pure part of the body, from the feces and
impurity, until all the pure parts are seperated and ascended. And in this
work is out natural and philosophical sublimation work completed. Now in
this whiteness is the soul infused into the body, to wit, the mineral virtue,
which is more subtile than fire, being indeed the true quintessence and life, 
which desires or hungers to be born again, and to put off the defilements
and be spoiled of its gross and earthy feces, which it has taken from its
monstrous womb, and corrupt place of its original. And in this our philo-
sophical sublimation, not in the impure, corrupt, vulgar mercury, which has
no qualities or properties like to those, with which our mercury, drawn from
its vitriolic caverns is adorned. But let us return to our sublimation.

(22)  It is most certain therefore in this art, that this soul extracted from
the bodies, cannot be made to ascend, but by adding to it a volatile matter,
which is of its own kind. By which the bodies will be made volatile and 
spiritual, lifting themselves up, subtilizing and subliming themselves, 
contrary to their own proper nature, which is corporeal, heavy and ponderous.
And by this means they are unbodied, or made no bodies, to wit, incorporeal,
and a quintessence of the nature of a spirit, which is called, "avis 
hermetis", and "mercurius extractus", drawn from a red subject or matter. And
so the terrene or earthy parts remain below, or rather the grosser parts of
the bodies, which can by no industry or ingenuity of man be brought to a 
perfect dissolution.

(23)  And this white vapor, this white gold, to wit, this quintessence, is
called also the compound magnesia, which like a man does contain, or like a
man is composed of a body, soul and spirit. Now the body is the fixed solar
earth, exceeding the most subtile matter, which by the help of our divine
water is with difficulty lifted up or seperated. The soul is the tincture of
sol and luna, proceeding from the conjunction, or communication of these two,
to wit, the bodies of sol and luna, and our water, and the spirit is the 
mineral power, or virtue of the bodies, and also out of the bodies like as
the tinctures or colors in dying cloth are by the water put upon, and diffused
in and through the cloth. And this mercurial spirit is the chain or band of
the solar soul; and the solar body is that body which contains the spirit and
soul, having the power of fixing in itself, being joined with luna. The 
spirit therefore penetrates, the body fixes, and the soul joins together,
tinges and whitens. From these three bodies united together is our stone
made: to wit, sol, luna and mercury.

(24)  Therefore with this our golden water, a natural substance is extracted,
exceeding all natural substances; and so, except the bodies be broken and
destroyed, imbibed, made subtile and fine, thriftily, and diligently managed,
till they are abstracted from, or lose their grossness or solid substance, 
nd be changed into a subtile spirit, all our labor will be in vain. And
unless the bodies be made no bodies or incorporeal, that is converted into
the philosophers mercury, there is no rule of art yet found out to work by.
The reason is, because it is impossible to draw out of the bodies all that
most thin and subtile spirit, which has in itself the tincture, except it
first be resolved in our water. Dissolve then the bodies in this our golden
water, and boil them until all the tincture is brought forth by the water,
in a white color and a white oil; and when you see this whiteness upon the
water, then know that the bodies are melted, liquified or dissolved.
Continue then this boiling, till the dark, black, and white cloud is brought
forth, which they have conceived.

(25)  Put therefore the perfect bodies of metals, to wit, sol and luna, into
our water in a vessel, hermetically sealed, upon a gentle fire, and digest
continually, till they are perfectly resolved into a most precious oil. Saith
Adfar, digest with a gentle fire, as it were for the hatching of chickens, so
long till the bodies are dissolved, and their perfectly conjoined tincture is
extracted, mark this well. But it is not extracted all at once, but it is
drawn out by little and little, day by day, and hour by hour, till after a
long time, the solution thereof is completed, and that which is dissolved
always swims atop. And while this dissolution is in hand, let the fire be
gentle and continual, till the bodies are dissolved into a viscous and most
subtile water, and the whole tincture be educed, in color first black, which
is the sign of a true dissolution.

(26)  Then continue the digestion, till it become a white fixed water, for
being digested in balneo, it will afterwards become clear, and in the end
become like common argent vive, ascending by the spirit above the first 
water. When there you see bodies dissolved in the first viscous water, then
know, that they are turned into a vapor, and the soul is seperated from the
dead body, and by sublimation, turned into the order of spirits. Whence both
of them, with a part of our water, are made spirits flying up in the air; and
there the compounded body, made of the male and female, viz. of sol and luna,
and of that most subtile nature, cleansed by sublimation, taketh life, and
is made spiritual by its own humidity. That is by its own water; like as a
man is sustained by the air, whereby from thenceforth it is multiplied, and
increases in its own kind, as do all other things. In such an ascention
therefore, and philosophical sublimation, all are joined one with another,
and the new body subtilized, or made living by the spirit, miraculously
liveth or springs like a vegetable.

(27)  Wherefore, unless the bodies be attenuated, or made thin, by the fire
and water, till they ascend in a spirit, and are made or do become like water
and vapor or mercury, you labor wholly in vain. But when they arise or 
ascend, they are born or brought forth in the air or spirit, and in the
same they are changed, and made life with life, so as they can never be
seperated, but are as water mixed with water. And therefore, it is wisely
said, that the stone is born of the spirit, because it is altogether
spiritual. For the vulture himself flying without wings cries upon the 
top of the mountain, saying, I am the white brought forth from the black, 
and the red brought forth from the white, the citrine son of the red; I
speak the truth and lie not.

(28)  It sufficeth thee then to put the bodies in the vessel, and into
the water once nd for all, and to close the vessel well, until a true
seperation is made. This the obscure artist calls conjunction, sublimation,
assation, extraction, putrefaction, ligation, desponsation, subtilization,
generation, etc.

(29)  Now the whole magistery may be perfected, work, as in the generation
of man, and of every vegetable; put the seed once into the womb, and shut
it up well. Thus you may see that you need not many things, and that this 
our work requires no great charges, for that there is but one stone, there 
is but one medicine, one vessel, one order of working, and one successive
disposition to the white and to the red. And although we say in many places,
take this, and take that, yet we understand, that it behoves us to take but
one thing, and put it once into the vessel, until the work be perfected.
But these things are so set down by obscure philosophers to deceive the 
unwary, as we have before spoken; for is not this "ars cabalistica" or a
secret and a hidden art? Is it not an art full of secrets? And believest
thou O fool that we plainly teach this secret of secrets, taking our words
according to their literal signification? Truly, I tell thee, that as for
myself, I am no ways self seeking, or envious as others are; but he that
takes the words of the other philosophers according to their common signif-
ication, he even already, having lost Ariadne's clue of thread, wanders in
the midst of the labyrinth, multiplies errors, and casts away his money for
nought.

(30)  nd I, Artephius, after I became an adept, and had attained to the
true and complete wisdom, by studying the books of the most faithful
Hermes, the speaker of truth, was sometimes obscure also as others were.
But when I had for the space of a thousand years, or thereabouts, which 
has now passed over my head, since the time I was born to this day, through
the alone goodness of God Almighty, by the use of this wonderful quintessence.
When I say for so very long a time, I found no man had found out or obtained
this hermetic secret, because of the obscurity of the philosophers words.
Being moved with a generous mind, and the integrity of a good man, I have
determined in these latter days of my life, to declare all things truly and
sincerely, that you may not want anything for the perfecting of this stone
of the philosophers. Excepting one certain thing, which is not lawful for 
me to discover to any, because it is either revealed or made known by God
himself, or taught by some master, which notwithstanding he that can bend 
himself to the search thereof, by the help of a little experience, may
easily learn in this book.

(31)  In this book I have therefore written the naked truth, though clothed
or disguised with  few colors; yet so that every good and wise man may 
happily have those desirable apples of the Hesperides from this our philo-
sophers tree. Wherefore praises be given to the most high God, who has
poured into our soul of his goodness; and through a good old age, even an
almost infinite number of years, has truly filled our hearts with his love,
in which, methinks, I embrace, cherish, and truly love all mankind
together. But to return to out business. Truly our work is perfectly per-
formed; for that which the heat of sun is a hundred years in doing, for the
generation of one metal in the bowels of the earth; our secret fire, that is,
our fiery and sulphureous water, which is called Balneum Mariae, doth as I
have often seen in a very short time.

(32) Now this operation or work is a thing of no great labor to him who knows
and understands it; nor is the matter so dear, consideration [sic, considering?]
how small a quantity does suffice, that it may cause any man to withdraw 
his hand from it. It is indeed, a work so short and easy, that it may well be 
called  woman's work, and the play of children. Go to it then,, my son, put 
up thy supplications to God almighty; be diligent in searching the books of 
the learned in this science; for one book openeth another; think and med-
itate of these things profoundly; nd avoid all things which vanish in or 
will not endure the fire, because from these adjustible, perishing or con-
suming things, you can never attain to the perfect matter, which is only
found in the digesting of your water, extracted from sol and luna. For by
this water, color, and ponderosity or weight, are infinitely given to the
matter; and this water is a white vapor, which like a soul flows through
the perfect bodies, taking wholly from them their blackness, and impurities,
uniting the two bodies in one, and increasing their water. Nor is there any
other thing than Azoth, to wit, this our water, which can take from the 
perfect bodies of sol and luna, their natural color, making the red body
white, according to the disposition thereof.

(33) Now let us speak of the fire. Our fire is mineral, equal, continuous;
it fumes not, unless it be too much stirred up, participates of sulphur,
and is taken from other things than from the matter; it overturns all 
things, dissolves, congeals, and calcines, and is to be found out by art,
or after an artificial manner. It is a compendious thing, got without cost
or charge, or at least without any great purchase; it is humid, vaporous,
digestive, altering, penetrating, subtile, spiritous, not violent, incom-
bustible, circumspective, continent, and one only thing. It is also a 
fountain of living water, which circumvolveth and contains the place, in
which the king and queen bathe themselves; through the whole work this 
moist fire is sufficient; in the beginning, middle and end, because in it,
the whole of the art does consist. This is the natural fire, which is yet
against nature, not natural and which burns not; lastly, this fire is hot,
cold, dry, moist; meditate on these things and proceed directly without
anything of a foreign nature. If you understand not these fires, give ear
to what I have yet to say, never as yet written in any book, but drawn
from the more abstruse and occult riddles of the ancients.

(34) We have properly three fires, without which our art cannot be perfected;
 and whosoever works without them takes a great deal of labor in vain. The 
first fire is that of the lamp, which is continuous, humid, vaporous, 
spiritous, and found out by art. This lamp ought to be proportioned to the
enclosure; wherein you must use great judgement, which none can attain to,
but he that can bend to the search thereof. For if this fire of the lamp 
be not measured, or duly proportioned or fitted to the furnace, it will be,
that either for the want of heat you will not see the expected signs, in
their limited times, whereby you will lose your hopes and expectation by a
too long delay; or else, by reason of too much heat, you will burn the
"flores auri", the golden flowers, and so foolishly bewail your lost expense.

(35)  The second fire is ignis cinerum, an ash heat, in which the vessel
hermetically sealed is recluded, or buried; or rather it is that most
sweet and gentle heat, which proceding from the temperate vapors of the
lamp, does equally surround your vessel. This fire is not violent or forcing,
except it be too much excited or stirred up; it is a fire digestive; 
alterative, and taken from another body than the matter; being but one only,
moist also, and not natural.

(36)  The third fire, is the natural fire of water, which is also called
the fire against nature, because it is water; and yet nevertheless, it makes
a mere spirit of gold, which common fire is not able to do. This fire is
mineral, equal, and participates of sulphur; it overturns or destroys,
congeals, dissolves, and calcines; it is penetrating, subtile, incombustible
and not burning, and is the fountain of living water, wherein the king and
queen bathe themselves, whose help we stand in need of through the whole 
work, through the beginning, middle, and end. But the other two above
mentioned, we have not always occasion for, but only at sometimes. In reading
therefore the books of the philosophers, conjoin these three fires in your 
judgement, and without doubt, you will understand whatever they have written
of them.

(37)  Now sa to the colors, that which does not make black cannot make
white, because blackness is the beginning of whiteness, and a sign of
putrefaction and alteration, and that the body is now penetrated and 
mortified. From the putrefaction therefore in this water, there first
appears blackness, like unto broth wherein some bloody thing is boiled.
Secondly, the black earth by continual digestion is whitened, because the
soul of the two bodies swims above upon the water, like white cream; and 
in this only whiteness, all the spirits are so united, that they can never
fly one from another. And therefore the laton must be whitened, and its
leaves unfolded, i.e., its body broken or opened, lest we labor in vain;
for this whiteness is the perfect stone for the white work, and a body 
ennobled to that end; even a tincture of a most exuberant glory, and
shining brightness, which never departs from the body it is once joined
with. Therefore you must note here, that the spirits are not fixed but in
the white color, which is more noble than the other colors, and is more
vehemently to be desired, for that as it were the complement or 
perfection of the whole work.

(38)  For our earth putrefies and becomes black, then it is putrefied
in lifting up or seperation; afterwards being dried, its blackness goes
away from it, and then it is whitened, and the feminine dominion of the
darkness and humidity perisheth; then also the white vapor penetrates 
through the new body, and the spirits are bound up or fixed in the dryness.
And that which is corrupting, deformed and black through the moisture, 
vanishes away; so the new body rises again clear, pure, white and immortal, 
obtaining the victory over all its enemies. And as heat working upon that
which is moist, causeth or generates blackness, which is the prime or first
color, so always by decoction more and more heat working upon that which is
dry begats whiteness, which is the second color; and then working upon that
which is purely and perfectly dry, it produces citrinity and redness, thus 
much for colors. WE must know therefore, that thing which has its head
red and white, but its feet white and afterwards red; and its eyes beforehand
black, that this thing, I say, is the only matter of our magistery.

(39)  Dissolve then sol and luna in our dissolving water, which is 
familiar and friendly, and next in nature to them; and is also sweet
and pleasant to them, and as it were a womb, a mother, an original, the
beginning and the end of their life. That is the reason why they are
meliorated or amended in this water, because like nature, rejoices in
like nature, a md like nature retains like nature, being joined the one
to the other, in a true marriage, by which they are made one nature, one 
new body, raised again from the dead, and immortal. Thus it behoves you
to join consanguinity, or sameness of kind, by which these natures, will
meet and follow one another, purify themselves and generate, and make one
another rejoice; for that like nature now is disposed by like nature, even 
that which is nearest, and most friendly to it.

(40)  Our water then is the most beautiful, lovely, and clear fountain,
prepared only for the king, and queen whom it knows very well, and they
it. For it attracts them to itself, and they abide therein for two or 
three days, to wit, two or three months, to wash themselves therewith, 
whereby they are made young again and beautiful. And because sol and luna 
have their original from this water their mother; it is necessary therefore
that they enter into it again, to wit, into their mothers womb, that they
may be regenerated and born again, and made more healthy, more noble and
more strong. If therefore these do not die and be converted to water, they
remain alone or as they were and without fruit; but if they die, and are
resolved in our water, they bring forth fruit of a hundred fold; and 
from that very place in which they seem to perish, from thence shall they
appear to be that which they were not before.

(41)  Let therefore the spirit of our living water be, with all care and
industry, fixed with sol and luna; for they being converted into the 
nature of water become dead, and appear like to the dead; from thence
afterwards being revived, they increase and multiply, even as do all
sorts of vegetable substances; it suffices then to dispose the matter
sufficiently without, because that within, it sufficiently disposes
itself for the perfection of its work. For it has in itself a certain
and inherent motion, according to the true way and method, and a much
better order than it is possible for any man to invent or think of. For 
this cause it is that you need only prepare the matter, nature herself 
will perfect it; and if she be not hindered by some contrary thing, she
will not overpass her own certain motion, neither in conceiving or gen-
erting, nor in bringing forth.

(42)  Wherefore, after the preperation of the matter, beware only lest
by too much heat or fire, you inflame the bath, or make it too hot; 
secondly, take heed lest the spirit should exhale, lest it hurt the
operator, to wit, lest it destroy the work, and induce many informities, 
as trouble, sadness, vexation, and discontent. From these things which
have been spoken, this axiom is manifest, to wit, that he can never know
the necessary course of nature, in the making ot generating of metals,
who is ignorant of the way of destroying them. You must therefore join
them together that are of one consanguinity or kindred; for like natures
do find out and join with their like natures, and by putrifying themselves,
and mix together and mortify themselves. It is needful therefore to know
this corruption and generation, and the natures themselves do embrace
one another, and are brought to a fixity in a slow and gentle fire; how 
like natures rejoiceth with like natures; and how they retain one another
and are converted into a white consistency.

(43)  This white substance, if you will make it red, you must continually
decoct it in a dry fire till it be rubified, or become red as blood, which
is nothing but water, fire, and true tincture. And so by a continual dry
fire, the whiteness is changed, removed, perfected, made citrine, and still
digested till it become to a true red and fixed color. And consequently by
how much more it is heightened in color, and made a true tincture of perfect
redness. Wherefore with a dry fire, and a dry calcination, without any
moisture, you must decoct this compositum, till it be invested with a most
perfect red color, and then it will be the true and perfect elixir.

(44)  Now if afterwards you would multiply your tincture, you must again
resolve that red, in new and fresh dissolving water, and then by decoctions
first whiten, and then rubify it again, by the degrees of fire, reiterating 
the first method of operating in this work. Dissolve, coagulate, and reiterate
the closing up, the opening and multiplying in quantity and quality at your
own pleasure. For by a new corruption and generation, there is introduced a
new motion. Thus we can never find an end if we do always work by reiterating
the same thing over and over again, viz. by solution and coagulation, by the
help of our dissolving water, by which we dissolve and congeal, as we have
formerly said, in the beginning of the work. Thus also is the virtue thereof
increased, and multiplied both in quantity and quality; so that if after the
first course of the operation you obtain a hundred fold; by the second fold
you will have a thousand fold; and by the third; ten thousand fold increase.
And by pursuing your work, your projection will come to infinity, tinging
truly and perfectly, and fixing the greatest quantity how much soever. Thus
by a thing of small and easy price, you have both color, goodness, and weight.

(45)  Our fire then and azoth are sufficient for you: decoct, reiterate,
dissolve, congeal, and continue this course, according as you please,
multiplying it as you think good, until your medicine is made fusible as
wax, and has attained the quantity and goodness or fixity and color you
desire. This then is the compleating of the whole work of our second stone
(observe it well) that you take the perfect body, and put it into our
water in a glass vesica or body well closed, lest the air get in or the 
enclosed humidity get out. Keep it in digestion in a gentle heat, as it 
were of a balneum, and assiduously continue the operation or work upon
the fire, till the decoction and digestion is perfect. And keep it in this
digestion of a gentle heat, until it be purified and re-solved into 
blackness, and be drawn up and sublimed by the water, and is thereby cleaned 
from all blackness and impurity, that it may be white and subtile. Until
it comes to the ultimate or highest purity of sublimation, and utmost 
volatility, and be made white both within and without: for the vulture
flying in the air without wings, cries out that it might get up upon the
mountain, that is upon the waters, upon which the "spiritus albus" or
spirit of whiteness is born. Continue still a fitting fire, and that spirit,
which is the subtile being of the body, and of the mercury will ascend upon
the top of the water, which quintessence is more white than the driven snow.
Continue yet still, and towards the end, increase the fire, till the
whole spiritual substance ascend to the top. And know well, that whatsoever
is clear, white-pure and spiritual, ascends in the air to the top of the
water in the substance of a white vapor, which the philosophers call their
virgin milk.

(46)  It ought to be, therefore, as one of the Sybills said, that the son
of the virgin be exalted from the earth, and that the white quintessence
after its rising out of the dead earth, be raised up towards heaven; the
gross and thick remaining in the bottom, of the vessel and the water.
Afterwards, the vessel being cooled, you will find in the bottom the black
feces, scorched and burnt, which seperate from the spirit and quintessence
of whiteness, and cast them away. Then will the argent vive fall down from
our air and spirit, upon the new earth, which is called argent vive sublimed
by the air or spirit, whereof is made a viscous water, pure and white. This
water is the true tincture seperated from all its black feces, and our
brass or latten is prepared with our water, purified and brought to a white
color. Which white color is not obtained but by decoction and coagulation of
the water; decoct, therefore, continually, wash away the blackness from the
latten, not with your hands, but with the stone, or the fire, or our second
mercurial water which is the true tincture. This seperation of the pure
from the impure is not done with hands, but nature herself does it, and 
brings it to perfection by a circular operation.

(47)  It appears then, that  this composition is not a work of hands, but a
change of the natures; because nature dissolves and joins itself, sublimes
and lifts itself up, and grows white, being seperated from the feces. And 
in such a sublimation the more subtile, pure, and essential parts are 
conjoined; for that with the fiery nature or property lifts up the subtile
parts, it seperates always the more pure, leaving the grosser at the
bottom. Wherefore your fire ought to be gentle and a continual vapor, with
which you sublime, that the matter may be filled with spirit from the air, 
and live. For naturally all things take life from the inbreathing of the
air; and so also our magistery receives in the vapor or spirit, by the
sublimation of the water.

(48)  Our brass or latten then, is to be made to ascend by the degrees of
fire, but of its own accord, freely, and without violence; except the 
body therefore be by the fire and water broken, or dissolved, and
attenuated, until it ascends as a spirit, or climbs like argent vive,
or rather as the white soul, seperated from the body, and by sublimation
diluted or brought into a spirit, nothing is or can be done. But when it
ascends on high, it is born in the air or spirit, and is changed into 
spirit; and becomes life with life, being only  spiritual and incorruptible.
And by such an operation it is that the body is made spirit, of a subtile
nature, and the spirit is incorporated with the body, and made one with it;
and by such a sublimation, conjunction, and raising up, the whole, both body
and spirit are made white.

(49)  This philosophical and natural sublimation therefore is necessary
which makes peace between, or fixes the body and spirit, which is impossible
to be done otherwise, than in the seperation of these parts. Therefore it
behoves you to sublime both, that the pure may ascend, and the impure may
descend, or be left at the bottom, in the perplexity of a troubled sea.
And for this reason it must be continually decocted, that it may be brought
to a subtile property, and the body may assume, and draw to itself the
white mercurial soul, which it naturally holds, and suffers not to be
seperated from it, because it is like to it in the nearness of the first
pure and simple nature. From these things it is necessary, to make a 
seperation by decoction, till no more remains of the purity of the soul,
which is not ascended and exalted to the higher part, whereby they will both
be reduced to an equality of properties, and a simple pure whiteness.

(50) The vulture flying through the air, and the toad creeping upon the 
ground, re the emblems of our magistery. When therefore gently and with
much care, you seperate the earth from the water, that is from the fire,
and the thin from the thick, then that which is pure will seperate itself
from the earth, and ascend to the upper part, as it were into heaven, and 
the impure will descend beneath, as to the earth. And the more subtile 
part in the superior place will take upon it the nature of a spirit, and
that in the lower place, the nature of an earthy body. Wherefore, let the
white property with the more subtile part of the body, be by this operation,
made to ascend leaving the feces behind, which is done in a short time. For
the soul is aided by her associate and fellow, and perfected by it. My
mother, saith the body, has begotten me, and by me she herself is begotten;
now after I have taken from her, her flying she after an admirable manner
becomes kind and nourishing, and cherishing the son whom she has begotten
till he come to a ripe or perfect age.

(51)  Hear now this secret: keep the body in our mercurial water, till
it ascends with the white soul, and the earthy part descends to the 
bottom, which is called the residing earth. Then you shall see the water
coagulate itself with the body, and be assured the art is true; because
the body coagulates the moisture into dryness, like as the rennet of a
lamb or calf turns milk into cheese. In the same manner the spirit 
penetrates the body, and is perfectly comixed with it in its smallest
atoms, and the body draws to itself his moisture, to wit, its white
soul, like as the loadstone draws iron, because of the nearness and
likeness of its nature; and then one contains the other. And this is
the sublimation and coagulation, which retaineth every volatile thing,
making it fixed for ever.

(52)  This compositum then is not a mechanical thing, or a work of the
hands,, but as I said, a changing of natures; and a wonderful 
connection of their cold with hot, and the moist with the dry; the hot
is mixed with the cold, and the dry with the moist: By this means is 
made the mixture and conjunction of body nd spirit, which is called a
conversion of contrary spirits and natures, because by such a dissolution
and sublimation, the spirit is converted into a body and body in a spirit.
So that the natures being mixed together, and reduced into one, do change
one another: and as the body corporifies the spirit, or changes it into
a body, so also does the spirit convert the body into a tinging and white
spirit.

(53)  Wherefore as the last time I say, decoct the body in our white
water, viz. mercury, till it is dissolved into blackness, and then by
continual decoction, let it be deprived of the same blackness, and the
body so dissolved, will at length ascend or rise with a white soul. And
then the one will be mixed with the other, and so embrace one another that
it shall not be possible any more to seperate them, but the spirit, with
a real agreement, will be unified with the body, and make one permanent or
fixed substance. And this is the solution of the body, and coagulation of
the spirit which have one and the same operation. Who therefore knows
how to conjoin the principles, or direct the work, to impregnate, to 
mortify, to putrefy, to generate, to quicken the species, to make white,
to cleanse the culture from its blackness and darkness, till he is purged
by the fire and tinged, and purified from all his spots, shall be the 
possessor of a treasure so great that even kings themselves shall venerate
him.

(54) Wherefore, let our body remain in the water till it is dissolved into
a subtile powder in the bottom of the vessel and the water, which is called
the black ashes; this is the corruption of the body which is called by 
the philosophers or wise men, "Saturnus plumbum philosophorum", and pulvis
discontinuatus, viz. saturn, latten or brass, the lead of the philosophers
the disguised powder. And in this putrefaction and resolution of the body, 
three signs appear, viz, a black color, a discontinuity of parts, and a
stinking smell, not much unlike to the smell of a vault where dead bodies 
are buried. These ashes then are those of which the philosophers have spoken
so much which remained in the lower part of the vessel, which we ought not
to undervalue or despise; in them is the royal diadem, and the black and
unclean argent vive, which ought to be cleansed from its blackness, by a
continual digestion in our water, till it be elevated above in a white color,
which is called the gander, and the bird of Hermes. He therefore that
maketh the red earth black, and then renders it white, has obtained the
magistery. So also he who kills the living, and revives the dead. Therefore
make the black white, and the white black, and you perfect the work.

(55) And when you see the true whiteness appear, which shineth like a 
bright sword, or polished silver, know that in that whiteness there is 
redness hidden. But then beware that you take not that whiteness out of the
vessel, but only digest it to the end, that with heat and dryness, it may
assume a citron color, and a most beautiful redness. Which when you see,
render praises and thanksgiving to the most great and good God, who gives
wisdom and riches to whomsoever He pleases, and takes them away according 
to the wickedness of a person. To Him, I say, the most wise and almighty
God, be glory for ages and ages. AMEN.
.
A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook

Title:      MEIN KAMPF
Author:     Adolf Hitler (1889-1945)
            Translated into English by James Murphy (died 1946).
eBook No.:  0200601.txt
Edition:    1
Language:   English
Character set encoding:     ASCII
Date first posted:          September 2002
Date most recently updated: September 2002

This eBook was produced by: Col Choat colc@gutenberg.net.au

Production notes:
* This translation of the unexpurgated edition of "MEIN KAMPF"
  was first published on March 21st, 1939 by HURST AND BLACKETT LTD.
* The 8-bit ASCII character set has been used because of the numerous
  accented characters in the text.
* Italics in the book have been converted to upper case in this eBook.
* Notes appear at the end of the paragraph in which the note reference
  appears.


Project Gutenberg of Australia eBooks are created from printed editions
which are in the public domain in Australia, unless a copyright notice
is included. We do NOT keep any eBooks in compliance with a particular
paper edition.

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing this
or any other Project Gutenberg file.

To contact Project Gutenberg of Australia go to http://gutenberg.net.au
Further information on contacting Project Gutenberg, the
"legal small print" and other information about this eBook may be found
at the end of this file.

** Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Books **
** eBooks Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971 **
***** These eBooks Are Prepared By Thousands of Volunteers! *****

-----------------------------------------------------------------

A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook

Title:      MEIN KAMPF
Author:     Adolf Hitler (1889-1945)
            Translated into English by James Murphy (died 1946).





INTRODUCTION

VOLUME I: A RETROSPECT

CHAPTER I    IN THE HOME OF MY PARENTS
CHAPTER II   YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING IN VIENNA
CHAPTER III  POLITICAL REFLECTIONS ARISING OUT OF MY SOJOURN IN VIENNA
CHAPTER IV   MUNICH
CHAPTER V    THE WORLD WAR
CHAPTER VI   WAR PROPAGANDA
CHAPTER VII  THE REVOLUTION
CHAPTER VIII THE BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
CHAPTER IX   THE GERMAN LABOUR PARTY
CHAPTER X    WHY THE SECOND REICH COLLAPSED
CHAPTER XI   RACE AND PEOPLE
CHAPTER XII  THE FIRST STAGE IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GERMAN NATIONAL
             SOCIALIST LABOUR PARTY

VOLUME II: THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST MOVEMENT

CHAPTER I    WELTANSCHAUUNG AND PARTY
CHAPTER II   THE STATE
CHAPTER III  CITIZENS AND SUBJECTS OF THE STATE
CHAPTER IV   PERSONALITY AND THE IDEAL OF THE PEOPLE'S STATE
CHAPTER V    WELTANSCHAUUNG AND ORGANIZATION
CHAPTER VI   THE FIRST PERIOD OF OUR STRUGGLE
CHAPTER VII  THE CONFLICT WITH THE RED FORCES
CHAPTER VIII THE STRONG IS STRONGEST WHEN ALONE
CHAPTER IX   FUNDAMENTAL IDEAS REGARDING THE NATURE AND ORGANIZATION OF
             THE STORM TROOPS
CHAPTER X    THE MASK OF FEDERALISM
CHAPTER XI   PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION
CHAPTER XII  THE PROBLEM OF THE TRADE UNIONS
CHAPTER XIII THE GERMAN POST-WAR POLICY OF ALLIANCES
CHAPTER XIV  GERMANY'S POLICY IN EASTERN EUROPE
CHAPTER XV   THE RIGHT TO SELF-DEFENCE
EPILOGUE





INTRODUCTION



AUTHOR'S PREFACE

On April 1st, 1924, I began to serve my sentence of detention in the
Fortress of Landsberg am Lech, following the verdict of the Munich
People's Court of that time.

After years of uninterrupted labour it was now possible for the first
time to begin a work which many had asked for and which I myself felt
would be profitable for the Movement. So I decided to devote two volumes
to a description not only of the aims of our Movement but also of its
development. There is more to be learned from this than from any purely
doctrinaire treatise.

This has also given me the opportunity of describing my own development
in so far as such a description is necessary to the understanding of the
first as well as the second volume and to destroy the legendary
fabrications which the Jewish Press have circulated about me.

In this work I turn not to strangers but to those followers of the
Movement whose hearts belong to it and who wish to study it more
profoundly. I know that fewer people are won over by the written word
than by the spoken word and that every great movement on this earth owes
its growth to great speakers and not to great writers.

Nevertheless, in order to produce more equality and uniformity in the
defence of any doctrine, its fundamental principles must be committed to
writing. May these two volumes therefore serve as the building stones
which I contribute to the joint work.

The Fortress, Landsberg am Lech.



At half-past twelve in the afternoon of November 9th, 1923, those whose
names are given below fell in front of the FELDHERRNHALLE and in the
forecourt of the former War Ministry in Munich for their loyal faith in
the resurrection of their people:

Alfarth, Felix, Merchant, born July 5th, 1901
Bauriedl, Andreas, Hatmaker, born May 4th, 1879
Casella, Theodor, Bank Official, born August 8th, 1900
Ehrlich, Wilhelm, Bank Official, born August 19th, 1894
Faust, Martin, Bank Official, born January 27th, 1901
Hechenberger, Anton, Locksmith, born September 28th, 1902
Koerner, Oskar, Merchant, born January 4th, 1875
Kuhn, Karl, Head Waiter, born July 25th, 1897
Laforce, Karl, Student of Engineering, born October 28th, 1904
Neubauer, Kurt, Waiter, born March 27th, 1899
Pape, Claus von, Merchant, born August 16th, 1904
Pfordten, Theodor von der, Councillor to the Superior Provincial Court,
born May 14th, 1873
Rickmers, Johann, retired Cavalry Captain, born May 7th, 1881
Scheubner-Richter, Max Erwin von, Dr. of Engineering, born January 9th,
1884
Stransky, Lorenz Ritter von, Engineer, born March 14th, 1899
Wolf, Wilhelm, Merchant, born October 19th, 1898

So-called national officials refused to allow the dead heroes a common
burial. So I dedicate the first volume of this work to them as a common
memorial, that the memory of those martyrs may be a permanent source of
light for the followers of our Movement.

The Fortress, Landsberg a/L.,

October 16th, 1924



TRANSLATOR'S INTRODUCTION

In placing before the reader this unabridged translation of Adolf
Hitler's book, MEIN KAMPF, I feel it my duty to call attention to
certain historical facts which must be borne in mind if the reader would
form a fair judgment of what is written in this extraordinary work.

The first volume of MEIN KAMPF was written while the author was
imprisoned in a Bavarian fortress. How did he get there and why? The
answer to that question is important, because the book deals with the
events which brought the author into this plight and because he wrote
under the emotional stress caused by the historical happenings of the
time. It was the hour of Germany's deepest humiliation, somewhat
parallel to that of a little over a century before, when Napoleon had
dismembered the old German Empire and French soldiers occupied almost
the whole of Germany.

In the beginning of 1923 the French invaded Germany, occupied the Ruhr
district and seized several German towns in the Rhineland. This was a
flagrant breach of international law and was protested against by every
section of British political opinion at that time. The Germans could not
effectively defend themselves, as they had been already disarmed under
the provisions of the Versailles Treaty. To make the situation more
fraught with disaster for Germany, and therefore more appalling in its
prospect, the French carried on an intensive propaganda for the
separation of the Rhineland from the German Republic and the
establishment of an independent Rhenania. Money was poured out lavishly
to bribe agitators to carry on this work, and some of the most insidious
elements of the German population became active in the pay of the
invader. At the same time a vigorous movement was being carried on in
Bavaria for the secession of that country and the establishment of an
independent Catholic monarchy there, under vassalage to France, as
Napoleon had done when he made Maximilian the first King of Bavaria in
1805.

The separatist movement in the Rhineland went so far that some leading
German politicians came out in favour of it, suggesting that if the
Rhineland were thus ceded it might be possible for the German Republic
to strike a bargain with the French in regard to Reparations. But in
Bavaria the movement went even farther. And it was more far-reaching in
its implications; for, if an independent Catholic monarchy could be set
up in Bavaria, the next move would have been a union with Catholic
German-Austria. possibly under a Habsburg King. Thus a Catholic BLOC
would have been created which would extend from the Rhineland through
Bavaria and Austria into the Danube Valley and would have been at least
under the moral and military, if not the full political, hegemony of
France. The dream seems fantastic now, but it was considered quite a
practical thing in those fantastic times. The effect of putting such a
plan into action would have meant the complete dismemberment of Germany;
and that is what French diplomacy aimed at. Of course such an aim no
longer exists. And I should not recall what must now seem "old, unhappy,
far-off things" to the modern generation, were it not that they were
very near and actual at the time MEIN KAMPF was written and were more
unhappy then than we can even imagine now.

By the autumn of 1923 the separatist movement in Bavaria was on the
point of becoming an accomplished fact. General von Lossow, the Bavarian
chief of the REICHSWEHR no longer took orders from Berlin. The flag of
the German Republic was rarely to be seen, Finally, the Bavarian Prime
Minister decided to proclaim an independent Bavaria and its secession
from the German Republic. This was to have taken place on the eve of the
Fifth Anniversary of the establishment of the German Republic (November
9th, 1918.)

Hitler staged a counter-stroke. For several days he had been mobilizing
his storm battalions in the neighbourhood of Munich, intending to make a
national demonstration and hoping that the REICHSWEHR would stand by him
to prevent secession. Ludendorff was with him. And he thought that the
prestige of the great German Commander in the World War would be
sufficient to win the allegiance of the professional army.

A meeting had been announced to take place in the Bu"rgerbra"u Keller on
the night of November 8th. The Bavarian patriotic societies were
gathered there, and the Prime Minister, Dr. von Kahr, started to read
his official PRONUNCIAMENTO, which practically amounted to a
proclamation of Bavarian independence and secession from the Republic.
While von Kahr was speaking Hitler entered the hall, followed by
Ludendorff. And the meeting was broken up.

Next day the Nazi battalions took the street for the purpose of making a
mass demonstration in favour of national union. They marched in massed
formation, led by Hitler and Ludendorff. As they reached one of the
central squares of the city the army opened fire on them. Sixteen of the
marchers were instantly killed, and two died of their wounds in the
local barracks of the REICHSWEHR. Several others were wounded also.
Hitler fell on the pavement and broke a collar-bone. Ludendorff marched
straight up to the soldiers who were firing from the barricade, but not
a man dared draw a trigger on his old Commander.

Hitler was arrested with several of his comrades and imprisoned in the
fortress of Landsberg on the River Lech. On February 26th, 1924, he was
brought to trial before the VOLKSGERICHT, or People's Court in Munich.
He was sentenced to detention in a fortress for five years. With several
companions, who had been also sentenced to various periods of
imprisonment, he returned to Landsberg am Lech and remained there until
the 20th of the following December, when he was released. In all he
spent about thirteen months in prison. It was during this period that he
wrote the first volume of MEIN KAMPF.

If we bear all this in mind we can account for the emotional stress
under which MEIN KAMPF was written. Hitler was naturally incensed
against the Bavarian government authorities, against the footling
patriotic societies who were pawns in the French game, though often
unconsciously so, and of course against the French. That he should write
harshly of the French was only natural in the circumstances. At that
time there was no exaggeration whatsoever in calling France the
implacable and mortal enemy of Germany. Such language was being used by
even the pacifists themselves, not only in Germany but abroad. And even
though the second volume of MEIN KAMPF was written after Hitler's
release from prison and was published after the French had left the
Ruhr, the tramp of the invading armies still echoed in German ears, and
the terrible ravages that had been wrought in the industrial and
financial life of Germany, as a consequence of the French invasion, had
plunged the country into a state of social and economic chaos. In France
itself the franc fell to fifty per cent of its previous value. Indeed,
the whole of Europe had been brought to the brink of ruin, following the
French invasion of the Ruhr and Rhineland.

But, as those things belong to the limbo of a dead past that nobody
wishes to have remembered now, it is often asked: Why doesn't Hitler
revise MEIN KAMPF? The answer, as I think, which would immediately come
into the mind of an impartial critic is that MEIN KAMPF is an historical
document which bears the imprint of its own time. To revise it would
involve taking it out of its historical context. Moreover Hitler has
declared that his acts and public statements constitute a partial
revision of his book and are to be taken as such. This refers especially
to the statements in MEIN KAMPF regarding France and those German
kinsfolk that have not yet been incorporated in the REICH. On behalf of
Germany he has definitely acknowledged the German portion of South Tyrol
as permanently belonging to Italy and, in regard to France, he has again
and again declared that no grounds now exist for a conflict of political
interests between Germany and France and that Germany has no territorial
claims against France. Finally, I may note here that Hitler has also
declared that, as he was only a political leader and not yet a statesman
in a position of official responsibility, when he wrote this book, what
he stated in MEIN KAMPF does not implicate him as Chancellor of the
REICH.

I now come to some references in the text which are frequently recurring
and which may not always be clear to every reader. For instance, Hitler
speaks indiscriminately of the German REICH. Sometimes he means to refer
to the first REICH, or Empire, and sometimes to the German Empire as
founded under William I in 1871. Incidentally the regime which he
inaugurated in 1933 is generally known as the THIRD REICH, though this
expression is not used in MEIN KAMPF. Hitler also speaks of the Austrian
REICH and the East Mark, without always explicitly distinguishing
between the Habsburg Empire and Austria proper. If the reader will bear
the following historical outline in mind, he will understand the
references as they occur.

The word REICH, which is a German form of the Latin word REGNUM, does
not mean Kingdom or Empire or Republic. It is a sort of basic word that
may apply to any form of Constitution. Perhaps our word, Realm, would be
the best translation, though the word Empire can be used when the REICH
was actually an Empire. The forerunner of the first German Empire was
the Holy Roman Empire which Charlemagne founded in A.D. 800. Charlemagne
was King of the Franks, a group of Germanic tribes that subsequently
became Romanized. In the tenth century Charlemagne's Empire passed into
German hands when Otto I (936-973) became Emperor. As the Holy Roman
Empire of the German Nation, its formal appellation, it continued to
exist under German Emperors until Napoleon overran and dismembered
Germany during the first decade of the last century. On August 6th,
1806, the last Emperor, Francis II, formally resigned the German crown.
In the following October Napoleon entered Berlin in triumph, after the
Battle of Jena.

After the fall of Napoleon a movement set in for the reunion of the
German states in one Empire. But the first decisive step towards that
end was the foundation of the Second German Empire in 1871, after the
Franco-Prussian War. This Empire, however, did not include the German
lands which remained under the Habsburg Crown. These were known as
German Austria. It was Bismarck's dream to unite German Austria with the
German Empire; but it remained only a dream until Hitler turned it into
a reality in 1938'. It is well to bear that point in mind, because this
dream of reuniting all the German states in one REICH has been a
dominant feature of German patriotism and statesmanship for over a
century and has been one of Hitler's ideals since his childhood.

In MEIN KAMPF Hitler often speaks of the East Mark. This East Mark--i.e.
eastern frontier land--was founded by Charlemagne as the eastern bulwark
of the Empire. It was inhabited principally by Germano-Celtic tribes
called Bajuvari and stood for centuries as the firm bulwark of Western
Christendom against invasion from the East, especially against the
Turks. Geographically it was almost identical with German Austria.

There are a few points more that I wish to mention in this introductory
note. For instance, I have let the word WELTANSCHAUUNG stand in its
original form very often. We have no one English word to convey the same
meaning as the German word, and it would have burdened the text too much
if I were to use a circumlocution each time the word occurs.
WELTANSCHAUUNG literally means "Outlook-on-the World". But as generally
used in German this outlook on the world means a whole system of ideas
associated together in an organic unity--ideas of human life, human
values, cultural and religious ideas, politics, economics, etc., in fact
a totalitarian view of human existence. Thus Christianity could be
called a WELTANSCHAUUNG, and Mohammedanism could be called a
WELTANSCHAUUNG, and Socialism could be called a WELTANSCHAUUNG,
especially as preached in Russia. National Socialism claims definitely
to be a WELTANSCHAUUNG.

Another word I have often left standing in the original is VO"LKISCH. The
basic word here is VOLK, which is sometimes translated as PEOPLE; but
the German word, VOLK, means the whole body of the PEOPLE without any
distinction of class or caste. It is a primary word also that suggests
what might be called the basic national stock. Now, after the defeat in
1918, the downfall of the Monarchy and the destruction of the
aristocracy and the upper classes, the concept of DAS VOLK came into
prominence as the unifying co-efficient which would embrace the whole
German people. Hence the large number of VO"LKISCH societies that arose
after the war and hence also the National Socialist concept of
unification which is expressed by the word VOLKSGEMEINSCHAFT, or folk
community. This is used in contradistinction to the Socialist concept of
the nation as being divided into classes. Hitler's ideal is the
VO"LKISCHER STAAT, which I have translated as the People's State.

Finally, I would point out that the term Social Democracy may be
misleading in English, as it has not a democratic connotation in our
sense. It was the name given to the Socialist Party in Germany. And that
Party was purely Marxist; but it adopted the name Social Democrat in
order to appeal to the democratic sections of the German people.

JAMES MURPHY.

Abbots Langley, February, 1939





VOLUME I: A RETROSPECT




CHAPTER I



IN THE HOME OF MY PARENTS


It has turned out fortunate for me to-day that destiny appointed
Braunau-on-the-Inn to be my birthplace. For that little town is situated
just on the frontier between those two States the reunion of which
seems, at least to us of the younger generation, a task to which we
should devote our lives and in the pursuit of which every possible means
should be employed.

German-Austria must be restored to the great German Motherland. And not
indeed on any grounds of economic calculation whatsoever. No, no. Even
if the union were a matter of economic indifference, and even if it were
to be disadvantageous from the economic standpoint, still it ought to
take place. People of the same blood should be in the same REICH. The
German people will have no right to engage in a colonial policy until
they shall have brought all their children together in the one State.
When the territory of the REICH embraces all the Germans and finds
itself unable to assure them a livelihood, only then can the moral right
arise, from the need of the people to acquire foreign territory. The
plough is then the sword; and the tears of war will produce the daily
bread for the generations to come.

And so this little frontier town appeared to me as the symbol of a great
task. But in another regard also it points to a lesson that is
applicable to our day. Over a hundred years ago this sequestered spot
was the scene of a tragic calamity which affected the whole German
nation and will be remembered for ever, at least in the annals of German
history. At the time of our Fatherland's deepest humiliation a
bookseller, Johannes Palm, uncompromising nationalist and enemy of the
French, was put to death here because he had the misfortune to have
loved Germany well. He obstinately refused to disclose the names of his
associates, or rather the principals who were chiefly responsible for
the affair. Just as it happened with Leo Schlageter. The former, like
the latter, was denounced to the French by a Government agent. It was a
director of police from Augsburg who won an ignoble renown on that
occasion and set the example which was to be copied at a later date by
the neo-German officials of the REICH under Herr Severing's
regime (Note 1).

[Note 1. In order to understand the reference here, and similar
references in later portions of MEIN KAMPF, the following must be borne
in mind:

From 1792 to 1814 the French Revolutionary Armies overran Germany. In
1800 Bavaria shared in the Austrian defeat at Hohenlinden and the French
occupied Munich. In 1805 the Bavarian Elector was made King of Bavaria by
Napoleon and stipulated to back up Napoleon in all his wars with a force
of 30,000 men. Thus Bavaria became the absolute vassal of the French.
This was 'TheTime of Germany's Deepest Humiliation', Which is referred
to again and again by Hitler.

In 1806 a pamphlet entitled 'Germany's Deepest Humiliation' was
published in South Germany. Amnng those who helped to circulate the
pamphlet was the Nu"rnberg bookseller, Johannes Philipp Palm. He was
denounced to the French by a Bavarian police agent. At his trial he
refused to disclose thename of the author. By Napoleon's orders, he was
shot at Braunau-on-the-Innon August 26th, 1806. A monument erected to
him on the site of the executionwas one of the first public objects that
made an impression on Hitler asa little boy.

Leo Schlageter's case was in many respects parallel to that of Johannes
Palm. Schlageter was a German theological student who volunteered for
service in 1914. He became an artillery officer and won the Iron Cross of
both classes. When the French occupied the Ruhr in 1923 Schlageter helped
to organize the passive resistance on the German side. He and his
companions blew up a railway bridge for the purpose of making the
transport of coal to France more difficult.

Those who took part in the affair were denounced to the French by a
German informer. Schlageter took the whole responsibility on his own
shoulders and was condemned to death, his companions being sentenced to
various terms of imprisonment and penal servitude by the French Court.
Schlageter refused to disclose the identity of those who issued the order
to blow up the railway bridge and he would not plead for mercy before a
French Court. He was shot by a French firing-squad on May 26th, 1923.
Severing was at that time German Minister of the Interior. It is said
that representations were made, to himon Schlageter's behalf and that he
refused to interfere.

Schlageter has become the chief martyr of the German resistancc to the
French occupation of the Ruhr and also one of the great heroes of the
National Socialist Movement. He had joined the Movement at a very early
stage, his card of membership bearing the number 61.]

In this little town on the Inn, haloed by the memory of a German martyr,
a town that was Bavarian by blood but under the rule of the Austrian
State, my parents were domiciled towards the end of the last century. My
father was a civil servant who fulfilled his duties very
conscientiously. My mother looked after the household and lovingly
devoted herself to the care of her children. From that period I have not
retained very much in my memory; because after a few years my father had
to leave that frontier town which I had come to love so much and take up
a new post farther down the Inn valley, at Passau, therefore actually in
Germany itself.

In those days it was the usual lot of an Austrian civil servant to be
transferred periodically from one post to another. Not long after coming
to Passau my father was transferred to Linz, and while there he retired
finally to live on his pension. But this did not mean that the old
gentleman would now rest from his labours.

He was the son of a poor cottager, and while still a boy he grew
restless and left home. When he was barely thirteen years old he buckled
on his satchel and set forth from his native woodland parish. Despite
the dissuasion of villagers who could speak from 'experience,' he went
to Vienna to learn a trade there. This was in the fiftieth year of the
last century. It was a sore trial, that of deciding to leave home and
face the unknown, with three gulden in his pocket. By when the boy of
thirteen was a lad of seventeen and had passed his apprenticeship
examination as a craftsman he was not content. Quite the contrary. The
persistent economic depression of that period and the constant want and
misery strengthened his resolution to give up working at a trade and
strive for 'something higher.' As a boy it had seemed to him that the
position of the parish priest in his native village was the highest in
the scale of human attainment; but now that the big city had enlarged
his outlook the young man looked up to the dignity of a State official
as the highest of all. With the tenacity of one whom misery and trouble
had already made old when only half-way through his youth the young man
of seventeen obstinately set out on his new project and stuck to it
until he won through. He became a civil servant. He was about
twenty-three years old, I think, when he succeeded in making himself
what he had resolved to become. Thus he was able to fulfil the promise
he had made as a poor boy not to return to his native village until he
was 'somebody.'

He had gained his end. But in the village there was nobody who had
remembered him as a little boy, and the village itself had become
strange to him.

Now at last, when he was fifty-six years old, he gave up his active
career; but he could not bear to be idle for a single day. On the
outskirts of the small market town of Lambach in Upper Austria he bought
a farm and tilled it himself. Thus, at the end of a long and
hard-working career, he came back to the life which his father had led.

It was at this period that I first began to have ideals of my own. I
spent a good deal of time scampering about in the open, on the long road
from school, and mixing up with some of the roughest of the boys, which
caused my mother many anxious moments. All this tended to make me
something quite the reverse of a stay-at-home. I gave scarcely any
serious thought to the question of choosing a vocation in life; but I
was certainly quite out of sympathy with the kind of career which my
father had followed. I think that an inborn talent for speaking now
began to develop and take shape during the more or less strenuous
arguments which I used to have with my comrades. I had become a juvenile
ringleader who learned well and easily at school but was rather
difficult to manage. In my freetime I practised singing in the choir of
the monastery church at Lambach, and thus it happened that I was placed
in a very favourable position to be emotionally impressed again and
again by the magnificent splendour of ecclesiastical ceremonial. What
could be more natural for me than to look upon the Abbot as representing
the highest human ideal worth striving for, just as the position of the
humble village priest had appeared to my father in his own boyhood days?
At least, that was my idea for a while. But the juvenile disputes I had
with my father did not lead him to appreciate his son's oratorical gifts
in such a way as to see in them a favourable promise for such a career,
and so he naturally could not understand the boyish ideas I had in my
head at that time. This contradiction in my character made him feel
somewhat anxious.

As a matter of fact, that transitory yearning after such a vocation soon
gave way to hopes that were better suited to my temperament. Browsing
through my father's books, I chanced to come across some publications
that dealt with military subjects. One of these publications was a
popular history of the Franco-German War of 1870-71. It consisted of two
volumes of an illustrated periodical dating from those years. These
became my favourite reading. In a little while that great and heroic
conflict began to take first place in my mind. And from that time
onwards I became more and more enthusiastic about everything that was in
any way connected with war or military affairs.

But this story of the Franco-German War had a special significance for
me on other grounds also. For the first time, and as yet only in quite a
vague way, the question began to present itself: Is there a
difference--and if there be, what is it--between the Germans who fought
that war and the other Germans? Why did not Austria also take part in
it? Why did not my father and all the others fight in that struggle? Are
we not the same as the other Germans? Do we not all belong together?

That was the first time that this problem began to agitate my small
brain. And from the replies that were given to the questions which I
asked very tentatively, I was forced to accept the fact, though with a
secret envy, that not all Germans had the good luck to belong to
Bismarck's Empire. This was something that I could not understand.

It was decided that I should study. Considering my character as a whole,
and especially my temperament, my father decided that the classical
subjects studied at the Lyceum were not suited to my natural talents. He
thought that the REALSCHULE (Note 2) would suit me better. My obvious
talent for drawing confirmed him in that view; for in his opinion drawing
was a subject too much neglected in the Austrian GYMNASIUM. Probably also
the memory of the hard road which he himself had travelled contributed to
make him look upon classical studies as unpractical and accordingly to
set little value on them. At the back of his mind he had the idea that
his son also should become an official of the Government. Indeed he had
decided on that career for me. The difficulties through which he had to
struggle in making his own career led him to overestimate what he had
achieved, because this was exclusively the result of his own
indefatigable industry and energy. The characteristic pride of the
self-made man urged him towards the idea that his son should follow the
same calling and if possible rise to a higher position in it. Moreover,
this idea was strengthened by the consideration that the results of his
own life's industry had placed him in a position to facilitate his son's
advancement in the same career.

[Note 2. Non-classical secondary school. The Lyceum and GYMNASIUM were
classical or semi-classical secondary schools.]

He was simply incapable of imagining that I might reject what had meant
everything in life to him. My father's decision was simple, definite,
clear and, in his eyes, it was something to be taken for granted. A man
of such a nature who had become an autocrat by reason of his own hard
struggle for existence, could not think of allowing 'inexperienced' and
irresponsible young fellows to choose their own careers. To act in such
a way, where the future of his own son was concerned, would have been a
grave and reprehensible weakness in the exercise of parental authority
and responsibility, something utterly incompatible with his
characteristic sense of duty.

And yet it had to be otherwise.

For the first time in my life--I was then eleven years old--I felt
myself forced into open opposition. No matter how hard and determined my
father might be about putting his own plans and opinions into action,
his son was no less obstinate in refusing to accept ideas on which he
set little or no value.

I would not become a civil servant.

No amount of persuasion and no amount of 'grave' warnings could break
down that opposition. I would not become a State official, not on any
account. All the attempts which my father made to arouse in me a love or
liking for that profession, by picturing his own career for me, had only
the opposite effect. It nauseated me to think that one day I might be
fettered to an office stool, that I could not dispose of my own time but
would be forced to spend the whole of my life filling out forms.

One can imagine what kind of thoughts such a prospect awakened in the
mind of a young fellow who was by no means what is called a 'good boy'
in the current sense of that term. The ridiculously easy school tasks
which we were given made it possible for me to spend far more time in
the open air than at home. To-day, when my political opponents pry into
my life with diligent scrutiny, as far back as the days of my boyhood,
so as finally to be able to prove what disreputable tricks this Hitler
was accustomed to in his young days, I thank heaven that I can look back
to those happy days and find the memory of them helpful. The fields and
the woods were then the terrain on which all disputes were fought out.

Even attendance at the REALSCHULE could not alter my way of spending my
time. But I had now another battle to fight.

So long as the paternal plan to make a State functionary contradicted my
own inclinations only in the abstract, the conflict was easy to bear. I
could be discreet about expressing my personal views and thus avoid
constantly recurrent disputes. My own resolution not to become a
Government official was sufficient for the time being to put my mind
completely at rest. I held on to that resolution inexorably. But the
situation became more difficult once I had a positive plan of my own
which I might present to my father as a counter-suggestion. This
happened when I was twelve years old. How it came about I cannot exactly
say now; but one day it became clear to me that I would be a painter--I
mean an artist. That I had an aptitude for drawing was an admitted fact.
It was even one of the reasons why my father had sent me to the
REALSCHULE; but he had never thought of having that talent developed in
such a way that I could take up painting as a professional career. Quite
the contrary. When, as a result of my renewed refusal to adopt his
favourite plan, my father asked me for the first time what I myself
really wished to be, the resolution that I had already formed expressed
itself almost automatically. For a while my father was speechless. "A
painter? An artist-painter?" he exclaimed.

He wondered whether I was in a sound state of mind. He thought that he
might not have caught my words rightly, or that he had misunderstood
what I meant. But when I had explained my ideas to him and he saw how
seriously I took them, he opposed them with that full determination
which was characteristic of him. His decision was exceedingly simple and
could not be deflected from its course by any consideration of what my
own natural qualifications really were.

"Artist! Not as long as I live, never." As the son had inherited some of
the father's obstinacy, besides having other qualities of his own, my
reply was equally energetic. But it stated something quite the contrary.

At that our struggle became stalemate. The father would not abandon his
'Never', and I became all the more consolidated in my 'Nevertheless'.

Naturally the resulting situation was not pleasant. The old gentleman
was bitterly annoyed; and indeed so was I, although I really loved him.
My father forbade me to entertain any hopes of taking up the art of
painting as a profession. I went a step further and declared that I
would not study anything else. With such declarations the situation
became still more strained, so that the old gentleman irrevocably
decided to assert his parental authority at all costs. That led me to
adopt an attitude of circumspect silence, but I put my threat into
execution. I thought that, once it became clear to my father that I was
making no progress at the REALSCHULE, for weal or for woe, he would be
forced to allow me to follow the happy career I had dreamed of.

I do not know whether I calculated rightly or not. Certainly my failure
to make progress became quite visible in the school. I studied just the
subjects that appealed to me, especially those which I thought might be
of advantage to me later on as a painter. What did not appear to have
any importance from this point of view, or what did not otherwise appeal
to me favourably, I completely sabotaged. My school reports of that time
were always in the extremes of good or bad, according to the subject and
the interest it had for me. In one column my qualification read 'very
good' or 'excellent'. In another it read 'average' or even 'below
average'. By far my best subjects were geography and, even more so,
general history. These were my two favourite subjects, and I led the
class in them.

When I look back over so many years and try to judge the results of that
experience I find two very significant facts standing out clearly before
my mind.

First, I became a nationalist.

Second, I learned to understand and grasp the true meaning of history.

The old Austria was a multi-national State. In those days at least the
citizens of the German Empire, taken through and through, could not
understand what that fact meant in the everyday life of the individuals
within such a State. After the magnificent triumphant march of the
victorious armies in the Franco-German War the Germans in the REICH
became steadily more and more estranged from the Germans beyond their
frontiers, partly because they did not deign to appreciate those other
Germans at their true value or simply because they were incapable of
doing so.

The Germans of the REICH did not realize that if the Germans in Austria
had not been of the best racial stock they could never have given the
stamp of their own character to an Empire of 52 millions, so definitely
that in Germany itself the idea arose--though quite an erroneous
one--that Austria was a German State. That was an error which led to
dire consequences; but all the same it was a magnificent testimony to
the character of the ten million Germans in that East Mark. (Note 3)
Only very few of the Germans in the REICH itself had an idea of the bitter
struggle which those Eastern Germans had to carry on daily for the
preservation of their German language, their German schools and their
German character. Only to-day, when a tragic fate has torn several
millions of our kinsfolk away from the REICH and has forced them to live
under the rule of the stranger, dreaming of that common fatherland
towards which all their yearnings are directed and struggling to uphold
at least the sacred right of using their mother tongue--only now have
the wider circles of the German population come to realize what it means
to have to fight for the traditions of one's race. And so at last
perhaps there are people here and there who can assess the greatness of
that German spirit which animated the old East Mark and enabled those
people, left entirely dependent on their own resources, to defend the
Empire against the Orient for several centuries and subsequently to hold
fast the frontiers of the German language through a guerilla warfare of
attrition, at a time when the German Empire was sedulously cultivating
an interest for colonies but not for its own flesh and blood before the
threshold of its own door.

[Note 3. See Translator's Introduction.]

What has happened always and everywhere, in every kind of struggle,
happened also in the language fight which was carried on in the old
Austria. There were three groups--the fighters, the hedgers and the
traitors. Even in the schools this sifting already began to take place.
And it is worth noting that the struggle for the language was waged
perhaps in its bitterest form around the school; because this was the
nursery where the seeds had to be watered which were to spring up and
form the future generation. The tactical objective of the fight was the
winning over of the child, and it was to the child that the first
rallying cry was addressed:

"German youth, do not forget that you are a German," and "Remember,
little girl, that one day you must be a German mother."

Those who know something of the juvenile spirit can understand how youth
will always lend a glad ear to such a rallying cry. Under many forms the
young people led the struggle, fighting in their own way and with their
own weapons. They refused to sing non-German songs. The greater the
efforts made to win them away from their German allegiance, the more
they exalted the glory of their German heroes. They stinted themselves
in buying things to eat, so that they might spare their pennies to help
the war chest of their elders. They were incredibly alert in the
significance of what the non-German teachers said and they contradicted
in unison. They wore the forbidden emblems of their own kinsfolk and
were happy when penalised for doing so, or even physically punished. In
miniature they were mirrors of loyalty from which the older people might
learn a lesson.

And thus it was that at a comparatively early age I took part in the
struggle which the nationalities were waging against one another in the
old Austria. When meetings were held for the South Mark German League
and the School League we wore cornflowers and black-red-gold colours to
express our loyalty. We greeted one another with HEIL! and instead of
the Austrian anthem we sang our own DEUTSCHLAND U"BER ALLES, despite
warnings and penalties. Thus the youth were educated politically at a
time when the citizens of a so-called national State for the most part
knew little of their own nationality except the language. Of course, I
did not belong to the hedgers. Within a little while I had become an
ardent 'German National', which has a different meaning from the party
significance attached to that phrase to-day.

I developed very rapidly in the nationalist direction, and by the time I
was 15 years old I had come to understand the distinction between
dynastic patriotism and nationalism based on the concept of folk, or
people, my inclination being entirely in favour of the latter.

Such a preference may not perhaps be clearly intelligible to those who
have never taken the trouble to study the internal conditions that
prevailed under the Habsburg Monarchy.

Among historical studies universal history was the subject almost
exclusively taught in the Austrian schools, for of specific Austrian
history there was only very little. The fate of this State was closely
bound up with the existence and development of Germany as a whole; so a
division of history into German history and Austrian history would be
practically inconceivable. And indeed it was only when the German people
came to be divided between two States that this division of German
history began to take place.

The insignia (Note 4) of a former imperial sovereignty which were still
preserved in Vienna appeared to act as magical relics rather than as the
visible guarantee of an everlasting bond of union.

[Note 4. When Francis II had laid down his title as Emperor of the Holy
Roman Empireof the German Nation, which he did at the command of Napoleon,
the Crownand Mace, as the Imperial Insignia, were kept in Vienna. After
the German Empire was refounded, in 1871, under William I, there were many
demands tohave the Insignia transferred to Berlin. But these went
unheeded. Hitler had them brought to Germany after the Austrian Anschluss
and displayed at Nuremberg during the Party Congress in September 1938.]

When the Habsburg State crumbled to pieces in 1918 the Austrian Germans
instinctively raised an outcry for union with their German fatherland.
That was the voice of a unanimous yearning in the hearts of the whole
people for a return to the unforgotten home of their fathers. But such a
general yearning could not be explained except by attributing the cause
of it to the historical training through which the individual Austrian
Germans had passed. Therein lay a spring that never dried up. Especially
in times of distraction and forgetfulness its quiet voice was a reminder
of the past, bidding the people to look out beyond the mere welfare of
the moment to a new future.

The teaching of universal history in what are called the middle schools
is still very unsatisfactory. Few teachers realize that the purpose of
teaching history is not the memorizing of some dates and facts, that the
student is not interested in knowing the exact date of a battle or the
birthday of some marshal or other, and not at all--or at least only very
insignificantly--interested in knowing when the crown of his fathers was
placed on the brow of some monarch. These are certainly not looked upon
as important matters.

To study history means to search for and discover the forces that are
the causes of those results which appear before our eyes as historical
events. The art of reading and studying consists in remembering the
essentials and forgetting what is not essential.

Probably my whole future life was determined by the fact that I had a
professor of history who understood, as few others understand, how to
make this viewpoint prevail in teaching and in examining. This teacher
was Dr. Leopold Poetsch, of the REALSCHULE at Linz. He was the ideal
personification of the qualities necessary to a teacher of history in
the sense I have mentioned above. An elderly gentleman with a decisive
manner but a kindly heart, he was a very attractive speaker and was able
to inspire us with his own enthusiasm. Even to-day I cannot recall
without emotion that venerable personality whose enthusiastic exposition
of history so often made us entirely forget the present and allow
ourselves to be transported as if by magic into the past. He penetrated
through the dim mist of thousands of years and transformed the
historical memory of the dead past into a living reality. When we
listened to him we became afire with enthusiasm and we were sometimes
moved even to tears.

It was still more fortunate that this professor was able not only to
illustrate the past by examples from the present but from the past he
was also able to draw a lesson for the present. He understood better
than any other the everyday problems that were then agitating our minds.
The national fervour which we felt in our own small way was utilized by
him as an instrument of our education, inasmuch as he often appealed to
our national sense of honour; for in that way he maintained order and
held our attention much more easily than he could have done by any other
means. It was because I had such a professor that history became my
favourite subject. As a natural consequence, but without the conscious
connivance of my professor, I then and there became a young rebel. But
who could have studied German history under such a teacher and not
become an enemy of that State whose rulers exercised such a disastrous
influence on the destinies of the German nation? Finally, how could one
remain the faithful subject of the House of Habsburg, whose past history
and present conduct proved it to be ready ever and always to betray the
interests of the German people for the sake of paltry personal
interests? Did not we as youngsters fully realize that the House of
Habsburg did not, and could not, have any love for us Germans?

What history taught us about the policy followed by the House of
Habsburg was corroborated by our own everyday experiences. In the north
and in the south the poison of foreign races was eating into the body of
our people, and even Vienna was steadily becoming more and more a
non-German city. The 'Imperial House' favoured the Czechs on every
possible occasion. Indeed it was the hand of the goddess of eternal
justice and inexorable retribution that caused the most deadly enemy of
Germanism in Austria, the Archduke Franz Ferdinand, to fall by the very
bullets which he himself had helped to cast. Working from above
downwards, he was the chief patron of the movement to make Austria a
Slav State.

The burdens laid on the shoulders of the German people were enormous and
the sacrifices of money and blood which they had to make were incredibly
heavy.

Yet anybody who was not quite blind must have seen that it was all in
vain. What affected us most bitterly was the consciousness of the fact
that this whole system was morally shielded by the alliance with
Germany, whereby the slow extirpation of Germanism in the old Austrian
Monarchy seemed in some way to be more or less sanctioned by Germany
herself. Habsburg hypocrisy, which endeavoured outwardly to make the
people believe that Austria still remained a German State, increased the
feeling of hatred against the Imperial House and at the same time
aroused a spirit of rebellion and contempt.

But in the German Empire itself those who were then its rulers saw
nothing of what all this meant. As if struck blind, they stood beside a
corpse and in the very symptoms of decomposition they believed that they
recognized the signs of a renewed vitality. In that unhappy alliance
between the young German Empire and the illusory Austrian State lay the
germ of the World War and also of the final collapse.

In the subsequent pages of this book I shall go to the root of the
problem. Suffice it to say here that in the very early years of my youth
I came to certain conclusions which I have never abandoned. Indeed I
became more profoundly convinced of them as the years passed. They were:
That the dissolution of the Austrian Empire is a preliminary condition
for the defence of Germany; further, that national feeling is by no
means identical with dynastic patriotism; finally, and above all, that
the House of Habsburg was destined to bring misfortune to the German
nation.

As a logical consequence of these convictions, there arose in me a
feeling of intense love for my German-Austrian home and a profound
hatred for the Austrian State.

That kind of historical thinking which was developed in me through my
study of history at school never left me afterwards. World history
became more and more an inexhaustible source for the understanding of
contemporary historical events, which means politics. Therefore I will
not "learn" politics but let politics teach me.

A precocious revolutionary in politics I was no less a precocious
revolutionary in art. At that time the provincial capital of Upper
Austria had a theatre which, relatively speaking, was not bad. Almost
everything was played there. When I was twelve years old I saw William
Tell performed. That was my first experience of the theatre. Some months
later I attended a performance of LOHENGRIN, the first opera I had ever
heard. I was fascinated at once. My youthful enthusiasm for the Bayreuth
Master knew no limits. Again and again I was drawn to hear his operas;
and to-day I consider it a great piece of luck that these modest
productions in the little provincial city prepared the way and made it
possible for me to appreciate the better productions later on.

But all this helped to intensify my profound aversion for the career
that my father had chosen for me; and this dislike became especially
strong as the rough corners of youthful boorishness became worn off, a
process which in my case caused a good deal of pain. I became more and
more convinced that I should never be happy as a State official. And now
that the REALSCHULE had recognized and acknowledged my aptitude for
drawing, my own resolution became all the stronger. Imprecations and
threats had no longer any chance of changing it. I wanted to become a
painter and no power in the world could force me to become a civil
servant. The only peculiar feature of the situation now was that as I
grew bigger I became more and more interested in architecture. I
considered this fact as a natural development of my flair for painting
and I rejoiced inwardly that the sphere of my artistic interests was
thus enlarged. I had no notion that one day it would have to be
otherwise.

The question of my career was decided much sooner than I could have
expected.

When I was in my thirteenth year my father was suddenly taken from us.
He was still in robust health when a stroke of apoplexy painlessly ended
his earthly wanderings and left us all deeply bereaved. His most ardent
longing was to be able to help his son to advance in a career and thus
save me from the harsh ordeal that he himself had to go through. But it
appeared to him then as if that longing were all in vain. And yet,
though he himself was not conscious of it, he had sown the seeds of a
future which neither of us foresaw at that time.

At first nothing changed outwardly.

My mother felt it her duty to continue my education in accordance with
my father's wishes, which meant that she would have me study for the
civil service. For my own part I was even more firmly determined than
ever before that under no circumstances would I become an official of
the State. The curriculum and teaching methods followed in the middle
school were so far removed from my ideals that I became profoundly
indifferent. Illness suddenly came to my assistance. Within a few weeks
it decided my future and put an end to the long-standing family
conflict. My lungs became so seriously affected that the doctor advised
my mother very strongly not under any circumstances to allow me to take
up a career which would necessitate working in an office. He ordered
that I should give up attendance at the REALSCHULE for a year at least.
What I had secretly desired for such a long time, and had persistently
fought for, now became a reality almost at one stroke.

Influenced by my illness, my mother agreed that I should leave the
REALSCHULE and attend the Academy.

Those were happy days, which appeared to me almost as a dream; but they
were bound to remain only a dream. Two years later my mother's death put
a brutal end to all my fine projects. She succumbed to a long and
painful illness which from the very beginning permitted little hope of
recovery. Though expected, her death came as a terrible blow to me. I
respected my father, but I loved my mother.

Poverty and stern reality forced me to decide promptly.

The meagre resources of the family had been almost entirely used up
through my mother's severe illness. The allowance which came to me as an
orphan was not enough for the bare necessities of life. Somehow or other
I would have to earn my own bread.

With my clothes and linen packed in a valise and with an indomitable
resolution in my heart, I left for Vienna. I hoped to forestall fate, as
my father had done fifty years before. I was determined to become
'something'--but certainly not a civil servant.




CHAPTER II



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING IN VIENNA


When my mother died my fate had already been decided in one respect.
During the last months of her illness I went to Vienna to take the
entrance examination for the Academy of Fine Arts. Armed with a bulky
packet of sketches, I felt convinced that I should pass the examination
quite easily. At the REALSCHULE I was by far the best student in the
drawing class, and since that time I had made more than ordinary
progress in the practice of drawing. Therefore I was pleased with myself
and was proud and happy at the prospect of what I considered an assured
success.

But there was one misgiving: It seemed to me that I was better qualified
for drawing than for painting, especially in the various branches of
architectural drawing. At the same time my interest in architecture was
constantly increasing. And I advanced in this direction at a still more
rapid pace after my first visit to Vienna, which lasted two weeks. I was
not yet sixteen years old. I went to the Hof Museum to study the
paintings in the art gallery there; but the building itself captured
almost all my interest, from early morning until late at night I spent
all my time visiting the various public buildings. And it was the
buildings themselves that were always the principal attraction for me.
For hours and hours I could stand in wonderment before the Opera and the
Parliament. The whole Ring Strasse had a magic effect upon me, as if it
were a scene from the Thousand-and-one-Nights.

And now I was here for the second time in this beautiful city,
impatiently waiting to hear the result of the entrance examination but
proudly confident that I had got through. I was so convinced of my
success that when the news that I had failed to pass was brought to me
it struck me like a bolt from the skies. Yet the fact was that I had
failed. I went to see the Rector and asked him to explain the reasons
why they refused to accept me as a student in the general School of
Painting, which was part of the Academy. He said that the sketches which
I had brought with me unquestionably showed that painting was not what I
was suited for but that the same sketches gave clear indications of my
aptitude for architectural designing. Therefore the School of Painting
did not come into question for me but rather the School of Architecture,
which also formed part of the Academy. At first it was impossible to
understand how this could be so, seeing that I had never been to a
school for architecture and had never received any instruction in
architectural designing.

When I left the Hansen Palace, on the SCHILLER PLATZ, I was quite
crestfallen. I felt out of sorts with myself for the first time in my
young life. For what I had heard about my capabilities now appeared to
me as a lightning flash which clearly revealed a dualism under which I
had been suffering for a long time, but hitherto I could give no clear
account whatsoever of the why and wherefore.

Within a few days I myself also knew that I ought to become an
architect. But of course the way was very difficult. I was now forced
bitterly to rue my former conduct in neglecting and despising certain
subjects at the REALSCHULE. Before taking up the courses at the School
of Architecture in the Academy it was necessary to attend the Technical
Building School; but a necessary qualification for entrance into this
school was a Leaving Certificate from the Middle School. And this I
simply did not have. According to the human measure of things my dream
of following an artistic calling seemed beyond the limits of
possibility.

After the death of my mother I came to Vienna for the third time. This
visit was destined to last several years. Since I had been there before
I had recovered my old calm and resoluteness. The former self-assurance
had come back, and I had my eyes steadily fixed on the goal. I would be
an architect. Obstacles are placed across our path in life, not to be
boggled at but to be surmounted. And I was fully determined to surmount
these obstacles, having the picture of my father constantly before my
mind, who had raised himself by his own efforts to the position of a
civil servant though he was the poor son of a village shoemaker. I had a
better start, and the possibilities of struggling through were better.
At that time my lot in life seemed to me a harsh one; but to-day I see
in it the wise workings of Providence. The Goddess of Fate clutched me
in her hands and often threatened to smash me; but the will grew
stronger as the obstacles increased, and finally the will triumphed.

I am thankful for that period of my life, because it hardened me and
enabled me to be as tough as I now am. And I am even more thankful
because I appreciate the fact that I was thus saved from the emptiness
of a life of ease and that a mother's darling was taken from tender arms
and handed over to Adversity as to a new mother. Though I then rebelled
against it as too hard a fate, I am grateful that I was thrown into a
world of misery and poverty and thus came to know the people for whom I
was afterwards to fight.

It was during this period that my eyes were opened to two perils, the
names of which I scarcely knew hitherto and had no notion whatsoever of
their terrible significance for the existence of the German people.
These two perils were Marxism and Judaism.

For many people the name of Vienna signifies innocent jollity, a festive
place for happy mortals. For me, alas, it is a living memory of the
saddest period in my life. Even to-day the mention of that city arouses
only gloomy thoughts in my mind. Five years of poverty in that Phaecian
(Note 5) town. Five years in which, first as a casual labourer and then as
a painter of little trifles, I had to earn my daily bread. And a meagre
morsel indeed it was, not even sufficient to still the hunger which I
constantly felt. That hunger was the faithful guardian which never left
me but took part in everything I did. Every book that I bought meant
renewed hunger, and every visit I paid to the opera meant the intrusion
of that inalienabl companion during the following days. I was always
struggling with my unsympathic friend. And yet during that time I
learned more than I had ever learned before. Outside my architectural
studies and rare visits to the opera, for which I had to deny myself
food, I had no other pleasure in life except my books.

[Note 5. The Phaecians were a legendary people, mentioned in Homer's
Odyssey. They were supposed to live on some unknown island in the Eastern
Mediterranean, sometimes suggested to be Corcyra, the modern Corfu. They
loved good living more than work, and so the name Phaecian has come to be
a synonym for parasite.]

I read a great deal then, and I pondered deeply over what I read. All
the free time after work was devoted exclusively to study. Thus within a
few years I was able to acquire a stock of knowledge which I find useful
even to-day.

But more than that. During those years a view of life and a definite
outlook on the world took shape in my mind. These became the granite
basis of my conduct at that time. Since then I have extended that
foundation only very little, and I have changed nothing in it.

On the contrary: I am firmly convinced to-day that, generally speaking,
it is in youth that men lay the essential groundwork of their creative
thought, wherever that creative thought exists. I make a distinction
between the wisdom of age--which can only arise from the greater
profundity and foresight that are based on the experiences of a long
life--and the creative genius of youth, which blossoms out in thought
and ideas with inexhaustible fertility, without being able to put these
into practice immediately, because of their very superabundance. These
furnish the building materials and plans for the future; and it is from
them that age takes the stones and builds the edifice, unless the
so-called wisdom of the years may have smothered the creative genius of
youth.

The life which I had hitherto led at home with my parents differed in
little or nothing from that of all the others. I looked forward without
apprehension to the morrow, and there was no such thing as a social
problem to be faced. Those among whom I passed my young days belonged to
the small bourgeois class. Therefore it was a world that had very little
contact with the world of genuine manual labourers. For, though at first
this may appear astonishing, the ditch which separates that class, which
is by no means economically well-off; from the manual labouring class is
often deeper than people think. The reason for this division, which we
may almost call enmity, lies in the fear that dominates a social group
which has only just risen above the level of the manual labourer--a fear
lest it may fall back into its old condition or at least be classed with
the labourers. Moreover, there is something repulsive in remembering the
cultural indigence of that lower class and their rough manners with one
another; so that people who are only on the first rung of the social
ladder find it unbearable to be forced to have any contact with the
cultural level and standard of living out of which they have passed.

And so it happens that very often those who belong to what can really be
called the upper classes find it much easier than do the upstarts to
descend to and intermingle with their fellow beings on the lowest social
level. For by the word upstart I mean everyone who has raised himself
through his own efforts to a social level higher than that to which he
formerly belonged. In the case of such a person the hard struggle
through which he passes often destroys his normal human sympathy. His
own fight for existence kills his sensibility for the misery of those
who have been left behind.

From this point of view fate had been kind to me. Circumstances forced
me to return to that world of poverty and economic insecurity above
which my father had raised himself in his early days; and thus the
blinkers of a narrow PETIT BOURGEOIS education were torn from my eyes.
Now for the first time I learned to know men and I learned to
distinguish between empty appearances or brutal manners and the real
inner nature of the people who outwardly appeared thus.

At the beginning of the century Vienna had already taken rank among
those cities where social conditions are iniquitous. Dazzling riches and
loathsome destitution were intermingled in violent contrast. In the
centre and in the Inner City one felt the pulse-beat of an Empire which
had a population of fifty-two millions, with all the perilous charm of a
State made up of multiple nationalities. The dazzling splendour of the
Court acted like a magnet on the wealth and intelligence of the whole
Empire. And this attraction was further strengthened by the dynastic
policy of the Habsburg Monarchy in centralizing everything in itself and
for itself.

This centralizing policy was necessary in order to hold together that
hotchpotch of heterogeneous nationalities. But the result of it was an
extraordinary concentration of higher officials in the city, which was
at one and the same time the metropolis and imperial residence.

But Vienna was not merely the political and intellectual centre of the
Danubian Monarchy; it was also the commercial centre. Besides the horde
of military officers of high rank, State officials, artists and
scientists, there was the still vaster horde of workers. Abject poverty
confronted the wealth of the aristocracy and the merchant class face to
face. Thousands of unemployed loitered in front of the palaces on the
Ring Strasse; and below that VIA TRIUMPHALIS of the old Austria the
homeless huddled together in the murk and filth of the canals.

There was hardly any other German city in which the social problem could
be studied better than in Vienna. But here I must utter a warning
against the illusion that this problem can be 'studied' from above
downwards. The man who has never been in the clutches of that crushing
viper can never know what its poison is. An attempt to study it in any
other way will result only in superficial talk and sentimental
delusions. Both are harmful. The first because it can never go to the
root of the question, the second because it evades the question
entirely. I do not know which is the more nefarious: to ignore social
distress, as do the majority of those who have been favoured by fortune
and those who have risen in the social scale through their own routine
labour, or the equally supercilious and often tactless but always
genteel condescension displayed by people who make a fad of being
charitable and who plume themselves on 'sympathising with the people.'
Of course such persons sin more than they can imagine from lack of
instinctive understanding. And thus they are astonished to find that the
'social conscience' on which they pride themselves never produces any
results, but often causes their good intentions to be resented; and then
they talk of the ingratitude of the people.

Such persons are slow to learn that here there is no place for merely
social activities and that there can be no expectation of gratitude; for
in this connection there is no question at all of distributing favours
but essentially a matter of retributive justice. I was protected against
the temptation to study the social question in the way just mentioned,
for the simple reason that I was forced to live in the midst of
poverty-stricken people. Therefore it was not a question of studying the
problem objectively, but rather one of testing its effects on myself.
Though the rabbit came through the ordeal of the experiment, this must
not be taken as evidence of its harmlessness.

When I try to-day to recall the succession of impressions received
during that time I find that I can do so only with approximate
completeness. Here I shall describe only the more essential impressions
and those which personally affected me and often staggered me. And I
shall mention the few lessons I then learned from this experience.

At that time it was for the most part not very difficult to find work,
because I had to seek work not as a skilled tradesman but as a so-called
extra-hand ready to take any job that turned up by chance, just for the
sake of earning my daily bread.

Thus I found myself in the same situation as all those emigrants who
shake the dust of Europe from their feet, with the cast-iron
determination to lay the foundations of a new existence in the New World
and acquire for themselves a new home. Liberated from all the paralysing
prejudices of class and calling, environment and tradition, they enter
any service that opens its doors to them, accepting any work that comes
their way, filled more and more with the idea that honest work never
disgraced anybody, no matter what kind it may be. And so I was resolved
to set both feet in what was for me a new world and push forward on my
own road.

I soon found out that there was some kind of work always to be got, but
I also learned that it could just as quickly and easily be lost. The
uncertainty of being able to earn a regular daily livelihood soon
appeared to me as the gloomiest feature in this new life that I had
entered.

Although the skilled worker was not so frequently thrown idle on the
streets as the unskilled worker, yet the former was by no means
protected against the same fate; because though he may not have to face
hunger as a result of unemployment due to the lack of demand in the
labour market, the lock-out and the strike deprived the skilled worker
of the chance to earn his bread. Here the element of uncertainty in
steadily earning one's daily bread was the bitterest feature of the
whole social-economic system itself.

The country lad who migrates to the big city feels attracted by what has
been described as easy work--which it may be in reality--and few working
hours. He is especially entranced by the magic glimmer spread over the
big cities. Accustomed in the country to earn a steady wage, he has been
taught not to quit his former post until a new one is at least in sight.
As there is a great scarcity of agricultural labour, the probability of
long unemployment in the country has been very small. It is a mistake to
presume that the lad who leaves the countryside for the town is not made
of such sound material as those who remain at home to work on the land.
On the contrary, experience shows that it is the more healthy and more
vigorous that emigrate, and not the reverse. Among these emigrants I
include not merely those who emigrate to America, but also the servant
boy in the country who decides to leave his native village and migrate
to the big city where he will be a stranger. He is ready to take the
risk of an uncertain fate. In most cases he comes to town with a little
money in his pocket and for the first few days he is not discouraged if
he should not have the good fortune to find work. But if he finds a job
and then loses it in a little while, the case is much worse. To find
work anew, especially in winter, is often difficult and indeed sometimes
impossible. For the first few weeks life is still bearable He receives
his out-of-work money from his trade union and is thus enabled to carry
on. But when the last of his own money is gone and his trade union
ceases to pay out because of the prolonged unemployment, then comes the
real distress. He now loiters about and is hungry. Often he pawns or
sells the last of his belongings. His clothes begin to get shabby and
with the increasing poverty of his outward appearance he descends to a
lower social level and mixes up with a class of human beings through
whom his mind is now poisoned, in addition to his physical misery. Then
he has nowhere to sleep and if that happens in winter, which is very
often the case, he is in dire distress. Finally he gets work. But the
old story repeats itself. A second time the same thing happens. Then a
third time; and now it is probably much worse. Little by little he
becomes indifferent to this everlasting insecurity. Finally he grows
used to the repetition. Thus even a man who is normally of industrious
habits grows careless in his whole attitude towards life and gradually
becomes an instrument in the hands of unscrupulous people who exploit
him for the sake of their own ignoble aims. He has been so often thrown
out of employment through no fault of his own that he is now more or
less indifferent whether the strike in which he takes part be for the
purpose of securing his economic rights or be aimed at the destruction
of the State, the whole social order and even civilization itself.
Though the idea of going on strike may not be to his natural liking, yet
he joins in it out of sheer indifference.

I saw this process exemplified before my eyes in thousands of cases. And
the longer I observed it the greater became my dislike for that mammoth
city which greedily attracts men to its bosom, in order to break them
mercilessly in the end. When they came they still felt themselves in
communion with their own people at home; if they remained that tie was
broken.

I was thrown about so much in the life of the metropolis that I
experienced the workings of this fate in my own person and felt the
effects of it in my own soul. One thing stood out clearly before my
eyes: It was the sudden changes from work to idleness and vice versa; so
that the constant fluctuations thus caused by earnings and expenditure
finally destroyed the 'sense of thrift for many people and also the
habit of regulating expenditure in an intelligent way. The body appeared
to grow accustomed to the vicissitudes of food and hunger, eating
heartily in good times and going hungry in bad. Indeed hunger shatters
all plans for rationing expenditure on a regular scale in better times
when employment is again found. The reason for this is that the
deprivations which the unemployed worker has to endure must be
compensated for psychologically by a persistent mental mirage in which
he imagines himself eating heartily once again. And this dream develops
into such a longing that it turns into a morbid impulse to cast off all
self-restraint when work and wages turn up again. Therefore the moment
work is found anew he forgets to regulate the expenditure of his
earnings but spends them to the full without thinking of to-morrow. This
leads to confusion in the little weekly housekeeping budget, because the
expenditure is not rationally planned. When the phenomenon which I have
mentioned first happens, the earnings will last perhaps for five days
instead of seven; on subsequent occasions they will last only for three
days; as the habit recurs, the earnings will last scarcely for a day;
and finally they will disappear in one night of feasting.

Often there are wife and children at home. And in many cases it happens
that these become infected by such a way of living, especially if the
husband is good to them and wants to do the best he can for them and
loves them in his own way and according to his own lights. Then the
week's earnings are spent in common at home within two or three days.
The family eat and drink together as long as the money lasts and at the
end of the week they hunger together. Then the wife wanders about
furtively in the neighbourhood, borrows a little, and runs up small
debts with the shopkeepers in an effort to pull through the lean days
towards the end of the week. They sit down together to the midday meal
with only meagre fare on the table, and often even nothing to eat. They
wait for the coming payday, talking of it and making plans; and while
they are thus hungry they dream of the plenty that is to come. And so
the little children become acquainted with misery in their early years.

But the evil culminates when the husband goes his own way from the
beginning of the week and the wife protests, simply out of love for the
children. Then there are quarrels and bad feeling and the husband takes
to drink according as he becomes estranged from his wife. He now becomes
drunk every Saturday. Fighting for her own existence and that of the
children, the wife has to hound him along the road from the factory to
the tavern in order to get a few shillings from him on payday. Then when
he finally comes home, maybe on the Sunday or the Monday, having parted
with his last shillings and pence, pitiable scenes follow, scenes that
cry out for God's mercy.

I have had actual experience of all this in hundreds of cases. At first
I was disgusted and indignant; but later on I came to recognize the
whole tragedy of their misfortune and to understand the profound causes
of it. They were the unhappy victims of evil circumstances.

Housing conditions were very bad at that time. The Vienna manual
labourers lived in surroundings of appalling misery. I shudder even
to-day when I think of the woeful dens in which people dwelt, the night
shelters and the slums, and all the tenebrous spectacles of ordure,
loathsome filth and wickedness.

What will happen one day when hordes of emancipated slaves come forth
from these dens of misery to swoop down on their unsuspecting fellow
men? For this other world does not think about such a possibility. They
have allowed these things to go on without caring and even without
suspecting--in their total lack of instinctive understanding--that
sooner or later destiny will take its vengeance unless it will have been
appeased in time.

To-day I fervidly thank Providence for having sent me to such a school.
There I could not refuse to take an interest in matters that did not
please me. This school soon taught me a profound lesson.

In order not to despair completely of the people among whom I then lived
I had to set on one side the outward appearances of their lives and on
the other the reasons why they had developed in that way. Then I could
hear everything without discouragement; for those who emerged from all
this misfortune and misery, from this filth and outward degradation,
were not human beings as such but rather lamentable results of
lamentable laws. In my own life similar hardships prevented me from
giving way to a pitying sentimentality at the sight of these degraded
products which had finally resulted from the pressure of circumstances.
No, the sentimental attitude would be the wrong one to adopt.

Even in those days I already saw that there was a two-fold method by
which alone it would be possible to bring about an amelioration of these
conditions. This method is: first, to create better fundamental
conditions of social development by establishing a profound feeling for
social responsibilities among the public; second, to combine this
feeling for social responsibilities with a ruthless determination to
prune away all excrescences which are incapable of being improved.

Just as Nature concentrates its greatest attention, not to the
maintenance of what already exists but on the selective breeding of
offspring in order to carry on the species, so in human life also it is
less a matter of artificially improving the existing generation--which,
owing to human characteristics, is impossible in ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred--and more a matter of securing from the very start a better
road for future development.

During my struggle for existence in Vienna I perceived very clearly that
the aim of all social activity must never be merely charitable relief,
which is ridiculous and useless, but it must rather be a means to find a
way of eliminating the fundamental deficiencies in our economic and
cultural life--deficiencies which necessarily bring about the
degradation of the individual or at least lead him towards such
degradation. The difficulty of employing every means, even the most
drastic, to eradicate the hostility prevailing among the working classes
towards the State is largely due to an attitude of uncertainty in
deciding upon the inner motives and causes of this contemporary
phenomenon. The grounds of this uncertainty are to be found exclusively
in the sense of guilt which each individual feels for having permitted
this tragedy of degradation. For that feeling paralyses every effort at
making a serious and firm decision to act. And thus because the people
whom it concerns are vacillating they are timid and half-hearted in
putting into effect even the measures which are indispensable for
self-preservation. When the individual is no longer burdened with his
own consciousness of blame in this regard, then and only then will he
have that inner tranquillity and outer force to cut off drastically and
ruthlessly all the parasite growth and root out the weeds.

But because the Austrian State had almost no sense of social rights or
social legislation its inability to abolish those evil excrescences was
manifest.

I do not know what it was that appalled me most at that time: the
economic misery of those who were then my companions, their crude
customs and morals, or the low level of their intellectual culture.

How often our bourgeoisie rises up in moral indignation on hearing from
the mouth of some pitiable tramp that it is all the same to him whether
he be a German or not and that he will find himself at home wherever he
can get enough to keep body and soul together. They protest sternly
against such a lack of 'national pride' and strongly express their
horror at such sentiments.

But how many people really ask themselves why it is that their own
sentiments are better? How many of them understand that their natural
pride in being members of so favoured a nation arises from the
innumerable succession of instances they have encountered which remind
them of the greatness of the Fatherland and the Nation in all spheres of
artistic and cultural life? How many of them realize that pride in the
Fatherland is largely dependent on knowledge of its greatness in all
those spheres? Do our bourgeois circles ever think what a ridiculously
meagre share the people have in that knowledge which is a necessary
prerequisite for the feeling of pride in one's fatherland?

It cannot be objected here that in other countries similar conditions
exist and that nevertheless the working classes in those countries have
remained patriotic. Even if that were so, it would be no excuse for our
negligent attitude. But it is not so. What we call chauvinistic
education--in the case of the French people, for example--is only the
excessive exaltation of the greatness of France in all spheres of
culture or, as the French say, civilization. The French boy is not
educated on purely objective principles. Wherever the importance of the
political and cultural greatness of his country is concerned he is
taught in the most subjective way that one can imagine.

This education will always have to be confined to general ideas in a
large perspective and these ought to be deeply engraven, by constant
repetition if necessary, on the memories and feelings of the people.

In our case, however, we are not merely guilty of negative sins of
omission but also of positively perverting the little which some
individuals had the luck to learn at school. The rats that poison our
body-politic gnaw from the hearts and memories of the broad masses even
that little which distress and misery have left.

Let the reader try to picture the following:

There is a lodging in a cellar and this lodging consists of two damp
rooms. In these rooms a workman and his family live--seven people in
all. Let us assume that one of the children is a boy of three years.
That is the age at which children first become conscious of the
impressions which they receive. In the case of highly gifted people
traces of the impressions received in those early years last in the
memory up to an advanced age. Now the narrowness and congestion of those
living quarters do not conduce to pleasant inter-relations. Thus
quarrels and fits of mutual anger arise. These people can hardly be said
to live with one another, but rather down on top of one another. The
small misunderstandings which disappear of themselves in a home where
there is enough space for people to go apart from one another for a
while, here become the source of chronic disputes. As far as the
children are concerned the situation is tolerable from this point of
view. In such conditions they are constantly quarrelling with one
another, but the quarrels are quickly and entirely forgotten. But when
the parents fall out with one another these daily bickerings often
descend to rudeness such as cannot be adequately imagined. The results
of such experiences must become apparent later on in the children. One
must have practical experience of such a MILIEU so as to be able to
picture the state of affairs that arises from these mutual
recriminations when the father physically assaults the mother and
maltreats her in a fit of drunken rage. At the age of six the child can
no longer ignore those sordid details which even an adult would find
revolting. Infected with moral poison, bodily undernourished, and the
poor little head filled with vermin, the young 'citizen' goes to the
primary school. With difficulty he barely learns to read and write.
There is no possibility of learning any lessons at home. Quite the
contrary. The father and mother themselves talk before the children in
the most disparaging way about the teacher and the school and they are
much more inclined to insult the teachers than to put their offspring
across the knee and knock sound reason into him. What the little fellow
hears at home does not tend to increase respect for his human
surroundings. Here nothing good is said of human nature as a whole and
every institution, from the school to the government, is reviled.
Whether religion and morals are concerned or the State and the social
order, it is all the same; they are all scoffed at. When the young lad
leaves school, at the age of fourteen, it would be difficult to say what
are the most striking features of his character, incredible ignorance in
so far as real knowledge is concerned or cynical impudence combined with
an attitude towards morality which is really startling at so young an
age.

What station in life can such a person fill, to whom nothing is sacred,
who has never experienced anything noble but, on the contrary, has been
intimately acquainted with the lowest kind of human existence? This
child of three has got into the habit of reviling all authority by the
time he is fifteen. He has been acquainted only with moral filth and
vileness, everything being excluded that might stimulate his thought
towards higher things. And now this young specimen of humanity enters
the school of life.

He leads the same kind of life which was exemplified for him by his
father during his childhood. He loiters about and comes home at all
hours. He now even black-guards that broken-hearted being who gave him
birth. He curses God and the world and finally ends up in a House of
Correction for young people. There he gets the final polish.

And his bourgeois contemporaries are astonished at the lack of
'patriotic enthusiasm' which this young 'citizen' manifests.

Day after day the bourgeois world are witnesses to the phenomenon of
spreading poison among the people through the instrumentality of the
theatre and the cinema, gutter journalism and obscene books; and yet
they are astonished at the deplorable 'moral standards' and 'national
indifference' of the masses. As if the cinema bilge and the gutter press
and suchlike could inculcate knowledge of the greatness of one's
country, apart entirely from the earlier education of the individual.

I then came to understand, quickly and thoroughly, what I had never been
aware of before. It was the following:

The question of 'nationalizing' a people is first and foremost one of
establishing healthy social conditions which will furnish the grounds
that are necessary for the education of the individual. For only when
family upbringing and school education have inculcated in the individual
a knowledge of the cultural and economic and, above all, the political
greatness of his own country--then, and then only, will it be possible
for him to feel proud of being a citizen of such a country. I can fight
only for something that I love. I can love only what I respect. And in
order to respect a thing I must at least have some knowledge of it.

As soon as my interest in social questions was once awakened I began to
study them in a fundamental way. A new and hitherto unknown world was
thus revealed to me.

In the years 1909-10 I had so far improved my, position that I no longer
had to earn my daily bread as a manual labourer. I was now working
independently as draughtsman, and painter in water colours. This ME'TIER
was a poor one indeed as far as earnings were concerned; for these were
only sufficient to meet the bare exigencies of life. Yet it had an
interest for me in view of the profession to which I aspired. Moreover,
when I came home in the evenings I was now no longer dead-tired as
formerly, when I used to be unable to look into a book without falling
asleep almost immediately. My present occupation therefore was in line
with the profession I aimed at for the future. Moreover, I was master of
my own time and could distribute my working-hours now better than
formerly. I painted in order to earn my bread, and I studied because I
liked it.

Thus I was able to acquire that theoretical knowledge of the social
problem which was a necessary complement to what I was learning through
actual experience. I studied all the books which I could find that dealt
with this question and I thought deeply on what I read. I think that the
MILIEU in which I then lived considered me an eccentric person.

Besides my interest in the social question I naturally devoted myself
with enthusiasm to the study of architecture. Side by side with music, I
considered it queen of the arts. To study it was for me not work but
pleasure. I could read or draw until the small hours of the morning
without ever getting tired. And I became more and more confident that my
dream of a brilliant future would become true, even though I should have
to wait long years for its fulfilment. I was firmly convinced that one
day I should make a name for myself as an architect.

The fact that, side by side with my professional studies, I took the
greatest interest in everything that had to do with politics did not
seem to me to signify anything of great importance. On the contrary: I
looked upon this practical interest in politics merely as part of an
elementary obligation that devolves on every thinking man. Those who
have no understanding of the political world around them have no right
to criticize or complain. On political questions therefore I still
continued to read and study a great deal. But reading had probably a
different significance for me from that which it has for the average run
of our so-called 'intellectuals'.

I know people who read interminably, book after book, from page to page,
and yet I should not call them 'well-read people'. Of course they 'know'
an immense amount; but their brain seems incapable of assorting and
classifying the material which they have gathered from books. They have
not the faculty of distinguishing between what is useful and useless in
a book; so that they may retain the former in their minds and if
possible skip over the latter while reading it, if that be not possible,
then--when once read--throw it overboard as useless ballast. Reading is
not an end in itself, but a means to an end. Its chief purpose is to
help towards filling in the framework which is made up of the talents
and capabilities that each individual possesses. Thus each one procures
for himself the implements and materials necessary for the fulfilment of
his calling in life, no matter whether this be the elementary task of
earning one's daily bread or a calling that responds to higher human
aspirations. Such is the first purpose of reading. And the second
purpose is to give a general knowledge of the world in which we live. In
both cases, however, the material which one has acquired through reading
must not be stored up in the memory on a plan that corresponds to the
successive chapters of the book; but each little piece of knowledge thus
gained must be treated as if it were a little stone to be inserted into
a mosaic, so that it finds its proper place among all the other pieces
and particles that help to form a general world-picture in the brain of
the reader. Otherwise only a confused jumble of chaotic notions will
result from all this reading. That jumble is not merely useless, but it
also tends to make the unfortunate possessor of it conceited. For he
seriously considers himself a well-educated person and thinks that he
understands something of life. He believes that he has acquired
knowledge, whereas the truth is that every increase in such 'knowledge'
draws him more and more away from real life, until he finally ends up in
some sanatorium or takes to politics and becomes a parliamentary deputy.

Such a person never succeeds in turning his knowledge to practical
account when the opportune moment arrives; for his mental equipment is
not ordered with a view to meeting the demands of everyday life. His
knowledge is stored in his brain as a literal transcript of the books he
has read and the order of succession in which he has read them. And if
Fate should one day call upon him to use some of his book-knowledge for
certain practical ends in life that very call will have to name the book
and give the number of the page; for the poor noodle himself would never
be able to find the spot where he gathered the information now called
for. But if the page is not mentioned at the critical moment the
widely-read intellectual will find himself in a state of hopeless
embarrassment. In a high state of agitation he searches for analogous
cases and it is almost a dead certainty that he will finally deliver the
wrong prescription.

If that is not a correct description, then how can we explain the
political achievements of our Parliamentary heroes who hold the highest
positions in the government of the country? Otherwise we should have to
attribute the doings of such political leaders, not to pathological
conditions but simply to malice and chicanery.

On the other hand, one who has cultivated the art of reading will
instantly discern, in a book or journal or pamphlet, what ought to be
remembered because it meets one's personal needs or is of value as
general knowledge. What he thus learns is incorporated in his mental
analogue of this or that problem or thing, further correcting the mental
picture or enlarging it so that it becomes more exact and precise.
Should some practical problem suddenly demand examination or solution,
memory will immediately select the opportune information from the mass
that has been acquired through years of reading and will place this
information at the service of one's powers of judgment so as to get a
new and clearer view of the problem in question or produce a definitive
solution.

Only thus can reading have any meaning or be worth while.

The speaker, for example, who has not the sources of information ready
to hand which are necessary to a proper treatment of his subject is
unable to defend his opinions against an opponent, even though those
opinions be perfectly sound and true. In every discussion his memory
will leave him shamefully in the lurch. He cannot summon up arguments to
support his statements or to refute his opponent. So long as the speaker
has only to defend himself on his own personal account, the situation is
not serious; but the evil comes when Chance places at the head of public
affairs such a soi-disant know-it-all, who in reality knows nothing.

From early youth I endeavoured to read books in the right way and I was
fortunate in having a good memory and intelligence to assist me. From
that point of view my sojourn in Vienna was particularly useful and
profitable. My experiences of everyday life there were a constant
stimulus to study the most diverse problems from new angles. Inasmuch as
I was in a position to put theory to the test of reality and reality to
the test of theory, I was safe from the danger of pedantic theorizing on
the one hand and, on the other, from being too impressed by the
superficial aspects of reality.

The experience of everyday life at that time determined me to make a
fundamental theoretical study of two most important questions outside of
the social question.

It is impossible to say when I might have started to make a thorough
study of the doctrine and characteristics of Marxism were it not for the
fact that I then literally ran head foremost into the problem.

What I knew of Social Democracy in my youth was precious little and that
little was for the most part wrong. The fact that it led the struggle
for universal suffrage and the secret ballot gave me an inner
satisfaction; for my reason then told me that this would weaken the
Habsburg regime, which I so thoroughly detested. I was convinced that
even if it should sacrifice the German element the Danubian State could
not continue to exist. Even at the price of a long and slow Slaviz-ation
of the Austrian Germans the State would secure no guarantee of a really
durable Empire; because it was very questionable if and how far the
Slavs possessed the necessary capacity for constructive politics.
Therefore I welcomed every movement that might lead towards the final
disruption of that impossible State which had decreed that it would
stamp out the German character in ten millions of people. The more this
babel of tongues wrought discord and disruption, even in the Parliament,
the nearer the hour approached for the dissolution of this Babylonian
Empire. That would mean the liberation of my German Austrian people, and
only then would it become possible for them to be re-united to the
Motherland.

Accordingly I had no feelings of antipathy towards the actual policy of
the Social Democrats. That its avowed purpose was to raise the level of
the working classes--which in my ignorance I then foolishly
believed--was a further reason why I should speak in favour of Social
Democracy rather than against it. But the features that contributed most
to estrange me from the Social Democratic movement was its hostile
attitude towards the struggle for the conservation of Germanism in
Austria, its lamentable cocotting with the Slav 'comrades', who received
these approaches favourably as long as any practical advantages were
forthcoming but otherwise maintained a haughty reserve, thus giving the
importunate mendicants the sort of answer their behaviour deserved.

And so at the age of seventeen the word 'Marxism' was very little known
to me, while I looked on 'Social Democracy' and 'Socialism' as
synonymous expressions. It was only as the result of a sudden blow from
the rough hand of Fate that my eyes were opened to the nature of this
unparalleled system for duping the public.

Hitherto my acquaintance with the Social Democratic Party was only that
of a mere spectator at some of their mass meetings. I had not the
slightest idea of the social-democratic teaching or the mentality of its
partisans. All of a sudden I was brought face to face with the products
of their teaching and what they called their WELTANSCHAUUNG. In this
way a few months sufficed for me to learn something which under other
circumstances might have necessitated decades of study--namely, that
under the cloak of social virtue and love of one's neighbour a veritable
pestilence was spreading abroad and that if this pestilence be not
stamped out of the world without delay it may eventually succeed in
exterminating the human race.

I first came into contact with the Social Democrats while working in the
building trade.

From the very time that I started work the situation was not very
pleasant for me. My clothes were still rather decent. I was careful of
my speech and I was reserved in manner. I was so occupied with thinking
of my own present lot and future possibilities that I did not take much
of an interest in my immediate surroundings. I had sought work so that I
shouldn't starve and at the same time so as to be able to make further
headway with my studies, though this headway might be slow. Possibly I
should not have bothered to be interested in my companions were it not
that on the third or fourth day an event occurred which forced me to
take a definite stand. I was ordered to join the trade union.

At that time I knew nothing about the trades unions. I had had no
opportunity of forming an opinion on their utility or inutility, as the
case might be. But when I was told that I must join the union I refused.
The grounds which I gave for my refusal were simply that I knew nothing
about the matter and that anyhow I would not allow myself to be forced
into anything. Probably the former reason saved me from being thrown out
right away. They probably thought that within a few days I might be
converted' and become more docile. But if they thought that they were
profoundly mistaken. After two weeks I found it utterly impossible for
me to take such a step, even if I had been willing to take it at first.
During those fourteen days I came to know my fellow workmen better, and
no power in the world could have moved me to join an organization whose
representatives had meanwhile shown themselves in a light which I found
so unfavourable.

During the first days my resentment was aroused.

At midday some of my fellow workers used to adjourn to the nearest
tavern, while the others remained on the building premises and there ate
their midday meal, which in most cases was a very scanty one. These were
married men. Their wives brought them the midday soup in dilapidated
vessels. Towards the end of the week there was a gradual increase in the
number of those who remained to eat their midday meal on the building
premises. I understood the reason for this afterwards. They now talked
politics.

I drank my bottle of milk and ate my morsel of bread somewhere on the
outskirts, while I circumspectly studied my environment or else fell to
meditating on my own harsh lot. Yet I heard more than enough. And I
often thought that some of what they said was meant for my ears, in the
hope of bringing me to a decision. But all that I heard had the effect
of arousing the strongest antagonism in me. Everything was
disparaged--the nation, because it was held to be an invention of the
'capitalist' class (how often I had to listen to that phrase!); the
Fatherland, because it was held to be an instrument in the hands of the
bourgeoisie for the exploitation of' the working masses; the authority
of the law, because that was a means of holding down the proletariat;
religion, as a means of doping the people, so as to exploit them
afterwards; morality, as a badge of stupid and sheepish docility. There
was nothing that they did not drag in the mud.

At first I remained silent; but that could not last very long. Then I
began to take part in the discussion and to reply to their statements. I
had to recognize, however, that this was bound to be entirely fruitless,
as long as I did not have at least a certain amount of definite
information about the questions that were discussed. So I decided to
consult the source from which my interlocutors claimed to have drawn
their so-called wisdom. I devoured book after book, pamphlet after
pamphlet.

Meanwhile, we argued with one another on the building premises. From day
to day I was becoming better informed than my companions in the subjects
on which they claimed to be experts. Then a day came when the more
redoubtable of my adversaries resorted to the most effective weapon they
had to replace the force of reason. This was intimidation and physical
force. Some of the leaders among my adversaries ordered me to leave the
building or else get flung down from the scaffolding. As I was quite
alone I could not put up any physical resistance; so I chose the first
alternative and departed, richer however by an experience.

I went away full of disgust; but at the same time so deeply moved that
it was quite impossible for me to turn my back on the whole situation
and think no more about it. When my anger began to calm down the spirit
of obstinacy got the upper hand and I decided that at all costs I would
get back to work again in the building trade. This decision became all
the stronger a few weeks later, when my little savings had entirely run
out and hunger clutched me once again in its merciless arms. No
alternative was left to me. I got work again and had to leave it for the
same reasons as before.

Then I asked myself: Are these men worthy of belonging to a great
people? The question was profoundly disturbing; for if the answer were
'Yes', then the struggle to defend one's nationality is no longer worth
all the trouble and sacrifice we demand of our best elements if it be in
the interests of such a rabble. On the other hand, if the answer had to
be 'No--these men are not worthy of the nation', then our nation is poor
indeed in men. During those days of mental anguish and deep meditation I
saw before my mind the ever-increasing and menacing army of people who
could no longer be reckoned as belonging to their own nation.

It was with quite a different feeling, some days later, that I gazed on
the interminable ranks, four abreast, of Viennese workmen parading at a
mass demonstration. I stood dumbfounded for almost two hours, watching
that enormous human dragon which slowly uncoiled itself there before me.
When I finally left the square and wandered in the direction of my
lodgings I felt dismayed and depressed. On my way I noticed the
ARBEITERZEITUNG (The Workman's Journal) in a tobacco shop. This was the
chief press-organ of the old Austrian Social Democracy. In a cheap cafe',
where the common people used to foregather and where I often went to
read the papers, the ARBEITERZEITUNG was also displayed. But hitherto I
could not bring myself to do more than glance at the wretched thing for
a couple of minutes: for its whole tone was a sort of mental vitriol to
me. Under the depressing influence of the demonstration I had witnessed,
some interior voice urged me to buy the paper in that tobacco shop and
read it through. So I brought it home with me and spent the whole
evening reading it, despite the steadily mounting rage provoked by this
ceaseless outpouring of falsehoods.

I now found that in the social democratic daily papers I could study the
inner character of this politico-philosophic system much better than in
all their theoretical literature.

For there was a striking discrepancy between the two. In the literary
effusions which dealt with the theory of Social Democracy there was a
display of high-sounding phraseology about liberty and human dignity and
beauty, all promulgated with an air of profound wisdom and serene
prophetic assurance; a meticulously-woven glitter of words to dazzle and
mislead the reader. On the other hand, the daily Press inculcated this
new doctrine of human redemption in the most brutal fashion. No means
were too base, provided they could be exploited in the campaign of
slander. These journalists were real virtuosos in the art of twisting
facts and presenting them in a deceptive form. The theoretical
literature was intended for the simpletons of the soi-disant
intellectuals belonging to the middle and, naturally, the upper classes.
The newspaper propaganda was intended for the masses.

This probing into books and newspapers and studying the teachings of
Social Democracy reawakened my love for my own people. And thus what at
first seemed an impassable chasm became the occasion of a closer
affection.

Having once understood the working of the colossal system for poisoning
the popular mind, only a fool could blame the victims of it. During the
years that followed I became more independent and, as I did so, I became
better able to understand the inner cause of the success achieved by
this Social Democratic gospel. I now realized the meaning and purpose of
those brutal orders which prohibited the reading of all books and
newspapers that were not 'red' and at the same time demanded that only
the 'red' meetings should be attended. In the clear light of brutal
reality I was able to see what must have been the inevitable
consequences of that intolerant teaching.

The PSYCHE of the broad masses is accessible only to what is strong and
uncompromising. Like a woman whose inner sensibilities are not so much
under the sway of abstract reasoning but are always subject to the
influence of a vague emotional longing for the strength that completes
her being, and who would rather bow to the strong man than dominate the
weakling--in like manner the masses of the people prefer the ruler to
the suppliant and are filled with a stronger sense of mental security by
a teaching that brooks no rival than by a teaching which offers them a
liberal choice. They have very little idea of how to make such a choice
and thus they are prone to feel that they have been abandoned. They feel
very little shame at being terrorized intellectually and they are
scarcely conscious of the fact that their freedom as human beings is
impudently abused; and thus they have not the slightest suspicion of the
intrinsic fallacy of the whole doctrine. They see only the ruthless
force and brutality of its determined utterances, to which they always
submit.

IF SOCIAL DEMOCRACY SHOULD BE OPPOSED BY A MORE TRUTHFUL TEACHING, THEN
EVEN, THOUGH THE STRUGGLE BE OF THE BITTEREST KIND, THIS TRUTHFUL
TEACHING WILL FINALLY PREVAIL PROVIDED IT BE ENFORCED WITH EQUAL
RUTHLESSNESS.

Within less than two years I had gained a clear understanding of Social
Democracy, in its teaching and the technique of its operations.

I recognized the infamy of that technique whereby the movement carried
on a campaign of mental terrorism against the bourgeoisie, who are
neither morally nor spiritually equipped to withstand such attacks. The
tactics of Social Democracy consisted in opening, at a given signal, a
veritable drum-fire of lies and calumnies against the man whom they
believed to be the most redoubtable of their adversaries, until the
nerves of the latter gave way and they sacrificed the man who was
attacked, simply in the hope of being allowed to live in peace. But the
hope proved always to be a foolish one, for they were never left in
peace.

The same tactics are repeated again and again, until fear of these mad
dogs exercises, through suggestion, a paralysing effect on their
Victims.

Through its own experience Social Democracy learned the value of
strength, and for that reason it attacks mostly those in whom it scents
stuff of the more stalwart kind, which is indeed a very rare possession.
On the other hand it praises every weakling among its adversaries, more
or less cautiously, according to the measure of his mental qualities
known or presumed. They have less fear of a man of genius who lacks
will-power than of a vigorous character with mediocre intelligence and
at the same time they highly commend those who are devoid of
intelligence and will-power.

The Social Democrats know how to create the impression that they alone
are the protectors of peace. In this way, acting very circumspectly but
never losing sight of their ultimate goal, they conquer one position
after another, at one time by methods of quiet intimidation and at
another time by sheer daylight robbery, employing these latter tactics
at those moments when public attention is turned towards other matters
from which it does not wish to be diverted, or when the public considers
an incident too trivial to create a scandal about it and thus provoke
the anger of a malignant opponent.

These tactics are based on an accurate estimation of human frailties and
must lead to success, with almost mathematical certainty, unless the
other side also learns how to fight poison gas with poison gas. The
weaker natures must be told that here it is a case of to be or not to
be.

I also came to understand that physical intimidation has its
significance for the mass as well as for the individual. Here again the
Socialists had calculated accurately on the psychological effect.

Intimidation in workshops and in factories, in assembly halls and at
mass demonstrations, will always meet with success as long as it does
not have to encounter the same kind of terror in a stronger form.

Then of course the Party will raise a horrified outcry, yelling blue
murder and appealing to the authority of the State, which they have just
repudiated. In doing this their aim generally is to add to the general
confusion, so that they may have a better opportunity of reaching their
own goal unobserved. Their idea is to find among the higher government
officials some bovine creature who, in the stupid hope that he may win
the good graces of these awe-inspiring opponents so that they may
remember him in case of future eventualities, will help them now to
break all those who may oppose this world pest.

The impression which such successful tactics make on the minds of the
broad masses, whether they be adherents or opponents, can be estimated
only by one who knows the popular mind, not from books but from
practical life. For the successes which are thus obtained are taken by
the adherents of Social Democracy as a triumphant symbol of the
righteousness of their own cause; on the other hand the beaten opponent
very often loses faith in the effectiveness of any further resistance.

The more I understood the methods of physical intimidation that were
employed, the more sympathy I had for the multitude that had succumbed
to it.

I am thankful now for the ordeal which I had to go through at that time;
for it was the means of bringing me to think kindly again of my own
people, inasmuch as the experience enabled me to distinguish between the
false leaders and the victims who have been led astray.

We must look upon the latter simply as victims. I have just now tried to
depict a few traits which express the mentality of those on the lowest
rung of the social ladder; but my picture would be disproportionate if I
do not add that amid the social depths I still found light; for I
experienced a rare spirit of self-sacrifice and loyal comradeship among
those men, who demanded little from life and were content amid their
modest surroundings. This was true especially of the older generation of
workmen. And although these qualities were disappearing more and more in
the younger generation, owing to the all-pervading influence of the big
city, yet among the younger generation also there were many who were
sound at the core and who were able to maintain themselves
uncontaminated amid the sordid surroundings of their everyday existence.
If these men, who in many cases meant well and were upright in
themselves, gave the support to the political activities carried on by
the common enemies of our people, that was because those decent
workpeople did not and could not grasp the downright infamy of the
doctrine taught by the socialist agitators. Furthermore, it was because
no other section of the community bothered itself about the lot of the
working classes. Finally, the social conditions became such that men who
otherwise would have acted differently were forced to submit to them,
even though unwillingly at first. A day came when poverty gained the
upper hand and drove those workmen into the Social Democratic ranks.

On innumerable occasions the bourgeoisie took a definite stand against
even the most legitimate human demands of the working classes. That
conduct was ill-judged and indeed immoral and could bring no gain
whatsoever to the bourgeois class. The result was that the honest
workman abandoned the original concept of the trades union organization
and was dragged into politics.

There were millions and millions of workmen who began by being hostile
to the Social Democratic Party; but their defences were repeatedly
stormed and finally they had to surrender. Yet this defeat was due to
the stupidity of the bourgeois parties, who had opposed every social
demand put forward by the working class. The short-sighted refusal to
make an effort towards improving labour conditions, the refusal to adopt
measures which would insure the workman in case of accidents in the
factories, the refusal to forbid child labour, the refusal to consider
protective measures for female workers, especially expectant
mothers--all this was of assistance to the Social Democratic leaders,
who were thankful for every opportunity which they could exploit for
forcing the masses into their net. Our bourgeois parties can never
repair the damage that resulted from the mistake they then made. For
they sowed the seeds of hatred when they opposed all efforts at social
reform. And thus they gave, at least, apparent grounds to justify the
claim put forward by the Social Democrats--namely, that they alone stand
up for the interests of the working class.

And this became the principal ground for the moral justification of the
actual existence of the Trades Unions, so that the labour organization
became from that time onwards the chief political recruiting ground to
swell the ranks of the Social Democratic Party.

While thus studying the social conditions around me I was forced,
whether I liked it or not, to decide on the attitude I should take
towards the Trades Unions. Because I looked upon them as inseparable
from the Social Democratic Party, my decision was hasty--and mistaken. I
repudiated them as a matter of course. But on this essential question
also Fate intervened and gave me a lesson, with the result that I
changed the opinion which I had first formed.

When I was twenty years old I had learned to distinguish between the
Trades Union as a means of defending the social rights of the employees
and fighting for better living conditions for them and, on the other
hand, the Trades Union as a political instrument used by the Party in
the class struggle.

The Social Democrats understood the enormous importance of the Trades
Union movement. They appropriated it as an instrument and used it with
success, while the bourgeois parties failed to understand it and thus
lost their political prestige. They thought that their own arrogant VETO
would arrest the logical development of the movement and force it into
an illogical position. But it is absurd and also untrue to say that the
Trades Union movement is in itself hostile to the nation. The opposite
is the more correct view. If the activities of the Trades Union are
directed towards improving the condition of a class, and succeed in
doing so, such activities are not against the Fatherland or the State
but are, in the truest sense of the word, national. In that way the
trades union organization helps to create the social conditions which
are indispensable in a general system of national education. It deserves
high recognition when it destroys the psychological and physical germs
of social disease and thus fosters the general welfare of the nation.

It is superfluous to ask whether the Trades Union is indispensable.

So long as there are employers who attack social understanding and have
wrong ideas of justice and fair play it is not only the right but also
the duty of their employees--who are, after all, an integral part of our
people--to protect the general interests against the greed and unreason
of the individual. For to safeguard the loyalty and confidence of the
people is as much in the interests of the nation as to safeguard public
health.

Both are seriously menaced by dishonourable employers who are not
conscious of their duty as members of the national community. Their
personal avidity or irresponsibility sows the seeds of future trouble.
To eliminate the causes of such a development is an action that surely
deserves well of the country.

It must not be answered here that the individual workman is free at any
time to escape from the consequences of an injustice which he has
actually suffered at the hands of an employer, or which he thinks he has
suffered--in other words, he can leave. No. That argument is only a ruse
to detract attention from the question at issue. Is it, or is it not, in
the interests of the nation to remove the causes of social unrest? If it
is, then the fight must be carried on with the only weapons that promise
success. But the individual workman is never in a position to stand up
against the might of the big employer; for the question here is not one
that concerns the triumph of right. If in such a relation right had been
recognized as the guiding principle, then the conflict could not have
arisen at all. But here it is a question of who is the stronger. If the
case were otherwise, the sentiment of justice alone would solve the
dispute in an honourable way; or, to put the case more correctly,
matters would not have come to such a dispute at all.

No. If unsocial and dishonourable treatment of men provokes resistance,
then the stronger party can impose its decision in the conflict until
the constitutional legislative authorities do away with the evil through
legislation. Therefore it is evident that if the individual workman is
to have any chance at all of winning through in the struggle he must be
grouped with his fellow workmen and present a united front before the
individual employer, who incorporates in his own person the massed
strength of the vested interests in the industrial or commercial
undertaking which he conducts.

Thus the trades unions can hope to inculcate and strengthen a sense of
social responsibility in workaday life and open the road to practical
results. In doing this they tend to remove those causes of friction
which are a continual source of discontent and complaint.

Blame for the fact that the trades unions do not fulfil this
much-desired function must be laid at the doors of those who barred the
road to legislative social reform, or rendered such a reform ineffective
by sabotaging it through their political influence.

The political bourgeoisie failed to understand--or, rather, they did not
wish to understand--the importance of the trades union movement. The
Social Democrats accordingly seized the advantage offered them by this
mistaken policy and took the labour movement under their exclusive
protection, without any protest from the other side. In this way they
established for themselves a solid bulwark behind which they could
safely retire whenever the struggle assumed a critical aspect. Thus the
genuine purpose of the movement gradually fell into oblivion, and was
replaced by new objectives. For the Social Democrats never troubled
themselves to respect and uphold the original purpose for which the
trade unionist movement was founded. They simply took over the Movement,
lock, stock and barrel, to serve their own political ends.

Within a few decades the Trades Union Movement was transformed, by the
expert hand of Social Democracy, from an instrument which had been
originally fashioned for the defence of human rights into an instrument
for the destruction of the national economic structure. The interests of
the working class were not allowed for a moment to cross the path of
this purpose; for in politics the application of economic pressure is
always possible if the one side be sufficiently unscrupulous and the
other sufficiently inert and docile. In this case both conditions were
fulfilled.

By the beginning of the present century the Trades Unionist Movement had
already ceased to recognize the purpose for which it had been founded.
From year to year it fell more and more under the political control of
the Social Democrats, until it finally came to be used as a
battering-ram in the class struggle. The plan was to shatter, by means
of constantly repeated blows, the economic edifice in the building of
which so much time and care had been expended. Once this objective had
been reached, the destruction of the State would become a matter of
course, because the State would already have been deprived of its
economic foundations. Attention to the real interests of the
working-classes, on the part of the Social Democrats, steadily decreased
until the cunning leaders saw that it would be in their immediate
political interests if the social and cultural demands of the broad
masses remained unheeded; for there was a danger that if these masses
once felt content they could no longer be employed as mere passive
material in the political struggle.

The gloomy prospect which presented itself to the eyes of the
CONDOTTIERI of the class warfare, if the discontent of the masses were
no longer available as a war weapon, created so much anxiety among them
that they suppressed and opposed even the most elementary measures of
social reform. And conditions were such that those leaders did not have
to trouble about attempting to justify such an illogical policy.

As the masses were taught to increase and heighten their demands the
possibility of satisfying them dwindled and whatever ameliorative
measures were taken became less and less significant; so that it was at
that time possible to persuade the masses that this ridiculous measure
in which the most sacred claims of the working-classes were being
granted represented a diabolical plan to weaken their fighting power in
this easy way and, if possible, to paralyse it. One will not be
astonished at the success of these allegations if one remembers what a
small measure of thinking power the broad masses possess.

In the bourgeois camp there was high indignation over the bad faith of
the Social Democratic tactics; but nothing was done to draw a practical
conclusion and organize a counter attack from the bourgeois side. The
fear of the Social Democrats, to improve the miserable conditions of the
working-classes ought to have induced the bourgeois parties to make the
most energetic efforts in this direction and thus snatch from the hands
of the class-warfare leaders their most important weapon; but nothing of
this kind happened.

Instead of attacking the position of their adversaries the bourgeoisie
allowed itself to be pressed and harried. Finally it adopted means that
were so tardy and so insignificant that they were ineffective and were
repudiated. So the whole situation remained just as it had been before
the bourgeois intervention; but the discontent had thereby become more
serious.

Like a threatening storm, the 'Free Trades Union' hovered above the
political horizon and above the life of each individual. It was one of
the most frightful instruments of terror that threatened the security
and independence of the national economic structure, the foundations of
the State and the liberty of the individual. Above all, it was the 'Free
Trades Union' that turned democracy into a ridiculous and scorned
phrase, insulted the ideal of liberty and stigmatized that of fraternity
with the slogan 'If you will not become our comrade we shall crack your
skull'.

It was thus that I then came to know this friend of humanity. During the
years that followed my knowledge of it became wider and deeper; but I
have never changed anything in that regard.

The more I became acquainted with the external forms of Social
Democracy, the greater became my desire to understand the inner nature
of its doctrines.

For this purpose the official literature of the Party could not help
very much. In discussing economic questions its statements were false
and its proofs unsound. In treating of political aims its attitude was
insincere. Furthermore, its modern methods of chicanery in the
presentation of its arguments were profoundly repugnant to me. Its
flamboyant sentences, its obscure and incomprehensible phrases,
pretended to contain great thoughts, but they were devoid of thought,
and meaningless. One would have to be a decadent Bohemian in one of our
modern cities in order to feel at home in that labyrinth of mental
aberration, so that he might discover 'intimate experiences' amid the
stinking fumes of this literary Dadism. These writers were obviously
counting on the proverbial humility of a certain section of our people,
who believe that a person who is incomprehensible must be profoundly
wise.

In confronting the theoretical falsity and absurdity of that doctrine
with the reality of its external manifestations, I gradually came to
have a clear idea of the ends at which it aimed.

During such moments I had dark presentiments and feared something evil.
I had before me a teaching inspired by egoism and hatred, mathematically
calculated to win its victory, but the triumph of which would be a
mortal blow to humanity.

Meanwhile I had discovered the relations existing between this
destructive teaching and the specific character of a people, who up to
that time had been to me almost unknown.

Knowledge of the Jews is the only key whereby one may understand the
inner nature and therefore the real aims of Social Democracy.

The man who has come to know this race has succeeded in removing from
his eyes the veil through which he had seen the aims and meaning of his
Party in a false light; and then, out of the murk and fog of social
phrases rises the grimacing figure of Marxism.

To-day it is hard and almost impossible for me to say when the word
'Jew' first began to raise any particular thought in my mind. I do not
remember even having heard the word at home during my father's lifetime.
If this name were mentioned in a derogatory sense I think the old
gentleman would just have considered those who used it in this way as
being uneducated reactionaries. In the course of his career he had come
to be more or less a cosmopolitan, with strong views on nationalism,
which had its effect on me as well. In school, too, I found no reason to
alter the picture of things I had formed at home.

At the REALSCHULE I knew one Jewish boy. We were all on our guard in our
relations with him, but only because his reticence and certain actions
of his warned us to be discreet. Beyond that my companions and myself
formed no particular opinions in regard to him.

It was not until I was fourteen or fifteen years old that I frequently
ran up against the word 'Jew', partly in connection with political
controversies. These references aroused a slight aversion in me, and I
could not avoid an uncomfortable feeling which always came over me when
I had to listen to religious disputes. But at that time I had no other
feelings about the Jewish question.

There were very few Jews in Linz. In the course of centuries the Jews
who lived there had become Europeanized in external appearance and were
so much like other human beings that I even looked upon them as Germans.
The reason why I did not then perceive the absurdity of such an illusion
was that the only external mark which I recognized as distinguishing
them from us was the practice of their strange religion. As I thought
that they were persecuted on account of their Faith my aversion to
hearing remarks against them grew almost into a feeling of abhorrence. I
did not in the least suspect that there could be such a thing as a
systematic anti-Semitism.

Then I came to Vienna.

Confused by the mass of impressions I received from the architectural
surroundings and depressed by my own troubles, I did not at first
distinguish between the different social strata of which the population
of that mammoth city was composed. Although Vienna then had about two
hundred thousand Jews among its population of two millions, I did not
notice them. During the first weeks of my sojourn my eyes and my mind
were unable to cope with the onrush of new ideas and values. Not until I
gradually settled down to my surroundings, and the confused picture
began to grow clearer, did I acquire a more discriminating view of my
new world. And with that I came up against the Jewish problem.

I will not say that the manner in which I first became acquainted with
it was particularly unpleasant for me. In the Jew I still saw only a man
who was of a different religion, and therefore, on grounds of human
tolerance, I was against the idea that he should be attacked because he
had a different faith. And so I considered that the tone adopted by the
anti-Semitic Press in Vienna was unworthy of the cultural traditions of
a great people. The memory of certain events which happened in the
middle ages came into my mind, and I felt that I should not like to see
them repeated. Generally speaking, these anti-Semitic newspapers did not
belong to the first rank--but I did not then understand the reason of
this--and so I regarded them more as the products of jealousy and envy
rather than the expression of a sincere, though wrong-headed, feeling.

My own opinions were confirmed by what I considered to be the infinitely
more dignified manner in which the really great Press replied to those
attacks or simply ignored them, which latter seemed to me the most
respectable way.

I diligently read what was generally called the World Press--NEUE FREIE
PRESSE, WIENER TAGEBLATT, etc.--and I was astonished by the abundance of
information they gave their readers and the impartial way in which they
presented particular problems. I appreciated their dignified tone; but
sometimes the flamboyancy of the style was unconvincing, and I did not
like it. But I attributed all this to the overpowering influence of the
world metropolis.

Since I considered Vienna at that time as such a world metropolis, I
thought this constituted sufficient grounds to excuse these shortcomings
of the Press. But I was frequently disgusted by the grovelling way in
which the Vienna Press played lackey to the Court. Scarcely a move took
place at the Hofburg which was not presented in glorified colours to the
readers. It was a foolish practice, which, especially when it had to do
with 'The Wisest Monarch of all Times', reminded one almost of the dance
which the mountain cock performs at pairing time to woo his mate. It was
all empty nonsense. And I thought that such a policy was a stain on the
ideal of liberal democracy. I thought that this way of currying favour
at the Court was unworthy of the people. And that was the first blot
that fell on my appreciation of the great Vienna Press.

While in Vienna I continued to follow with a vivid interest all the
events that were taking place in Germany, whether connected with
political or cultural question. I had a feeling of pride and admiration
when I compared the rise of the young German Empire with the decline of
the Austrian State. But, although the foreign policy of that Empire was
a source of real pleasure on the whole, the internal political
happenings were not always so satisfactory. I did not approve of the
campaign which at that time was being carried on against William II. I
looked upon him not only as the German Emperor but, above all, as the
creator of the German Navy. The fact that the Emperor was prohibited
from speaking in the Reichstag made me very angry, because the
prohibition came from a side which in my eyes had no authority to make
it. For at a single sitting those same parliamentary ganders did more
cackling together than the whole dynasty of Emperors, comprising even
the weakest, had done in the course of centuries.

It annoyed me to have to acknowledge that in a nation where any
half-witted fellow could claim for himself the right to criticize and
might even be let loose on the people as a 'Legislator' in the
Reichstag, the bearer of the Imperial Crown could be the subject of a
'reprimand' on the part of the most miserable assembly of drivellers
that had ever existed.

I was even more disgusted at the way in which this same Vienna Press
salaamed obsequiously before the meanest steed belonging to the Habsburg
royal equipage and went off into wild ecstacies of delight if the nag
wagged its tail in response. And at the same time these newspapers took
up an attitude of anxiety in matters that concerned the German Emperor,
trying to cloak their enmity by the serious air they gave themselves.
But in my eyes that enmity appeared to be only poorly cloaked. Naturally
they protested that they had no intention of mixing in Germany's
internal affairs--God forbid! They pretended that by touching a delicate
spot in such a friendly way they were fulfilling a duty that devolved
upon them by reason of the mutual alliance between the two countries and
at the same time discharging their obligations of journalistic
truthfulness. Having thus excused themselves about tenderly touching a
sore spot, they bored with the finger ruthlessly into the wound.

That sort of thing made my blood boil. And now I began to be more and
more on my guard when reading the great Vienna Press.

I had to acknowledge, however, that on such subjects one of the
anti-Semitic papers--the DEUTSCHE VOLKSBLATT--acted more decently.

What got still more on my nerves was the repugnant manner in which the
big newspapers cultivated admiration for France. One really had to feel
ashamed of being a German when confronted by those mellifluous hymns of
praise for 'the great culture-nation'. This wretched Gallomania more
often than once made me throw away one of those 'world newspapers'. I
now often turned to the VOLKSBLATT, which was much smaller in size but
which treated such subjects more decently. I was not in accord with its
sharp anti-Semitic tone; but again and again I found that its arguments
gave me grounds for serious thought.

Anyhow, it was as a result of such reading that I came to know the man
and the movement which then determined the fate of Vienna. These were
Dr. Karl Lueger and the Christian Socialist Movement. At the time I came
to Vienna I felt opposed to both. I looked on the man and the movement
as 'reactionary'.

But even an elementary sense of justice enforced me to change my opinion
when I had the opportunity of knowing the man and his work, and slowly
that opinion grew into outspoken admiration when I had better grounds
for forming a judgment. To-day, as well as then, I hold Dr. Karl Lueger
as the most eminent type of German Burgermeister. How many prejudices
were thrown over through such a change in my attitude towards the
Christian-Socialist Movement!

My ideas about anti-Semitism changed also in the course of time, but
that was the change which I found most difficult. It cost me a greater
internal conflict with myself, and it was only after a struggle between
reason and sentiment that victory began to be decided in favour of the
former. Two years later sentiment rallied to the side of reasons and
became a faithful guardian and counsellor.

At the time of this bitter struggle, between calm reason and the
sentiments in which I had been brought up, the lessons that I learned on
the streets of Vienna rendered me invaluable assistance. A time came
when I no longer passed blindly along the street of the mighty city, as
I had done in the early days, but now with my eyes open not only to
study the buildings but also the human beings.

Once, when passing through the inner City, I suddenly encountered a
phenomenon in a long caftan and wearing black side-locks. My first
thought was: Is this a Jew? They certainly did not have this appearance
in Linz. I watched the man stealthily and cautiously; but the longer I
gazed at the strange countenance and examined it feature by feature, the
more the question shaped itself in my brain: Is this a German?

As was always my habit with such experiences, I turned to books for help
in removing my doubts. For the first time in my life I bought myself
some anti-Semitic pamphlets for a few pence. But unfortunately they all
began with the assumption that in principle the reader had at least a
certain degree of information on the Jewish question or was even
familiar with it. Moreover, the tone of most of these pamphlets was such
that I became doubtful again, because the statements made were partly
superficial and the proofs extraordinarily unscientific. For weeks, and
indeed for months, I returned to my old way of thinking. The subject
appeared so enormous and the accusations were so far-reaching that I was
afraid of dealing with it unjustly and so I became again anxious and
uncertain.

Naturally I could no longer doubt that here there was not a question of
Germans who happened to be of a different religion but rather that there
was question of an entirely different people. For as soon as I began to
investigate the matter and observe the Jews, then Vienna appeared to me
in a different light. Wherever I now went I saw Jews, and the more I saw
of them the more strikingly and clearly they stood out as a different
people from the other citizens. Especially the Inner City and the
district northwards from the Danube Canal swarmed with a people who,
even in outer appearance, bore no similarity to the Germans.

But any indecision which I may still have felt about that point was
finally removed by the activities of a certain section of the Jews
themselves. A great movement, called Zionism, arose among them. Its aim
was to assert the national character of Judaism, and the movement was
strongly represented in Vienna.

To outward appearances it seemed as if only one group of Jews championed
this movement, while the great majority disapproved of it, or even
repudiated it. But an investigation of the situation showed that those
outward appearances were purposely misleading. These outward appearances
emerged from a mist of theories which had been produced for reasons of
expediency, if not for purposes of downright deception. For that part of
Jewry which was styled Liberal did not disown the Zionists as if they
were not members of their race but rather as brother Jews who publicly
professed their faith in an unpractical way, so as to create a danger
for Jewry itself.

Thus there was no real rift in their internal solidarity.

This fictitious conflict between the Zionists and the Liberal Jews soon
disgusted me; for it was false through and through and in direct
contradiction to the moral dignity and immaculate character on which
that race had always prided itself.

Cleanliness, whether moral or of another kind, had its own peculiar
meaning for these people. That they were water-shy was obvious on
looking at them and, unfortunately, very often also when not looking at
them at all. The odour of those people in caftans often used to make me
feel ill. Beyond that there were the unkempt clothes and the ignoble
exterior.

All these details were certainly not attractive; but the revolting
feature was that beneath their unclean exterior one suddenly perceived
the moral mildew of the chosen race.

What soon gave me cause for very serious consideration were the
activities of the Jews in certain branches of life, into the mystery of
which I penetrated little by little. Was there any shady undertaking,
any form of foulness, especially in cultural life, in which at least one
Jew did not participate? On putting the probing knife carefully to that
kind of abscess one immediately discovered, like a maggot in a
putrescent body, a little Jew who was often blinded by the sudden light.

In my eyes the charge against Judaism became a grave one the moment I
discovered the Jewish activities in the Press, in art, in literature and
the theatre. All unctuous protests were now more or less futile. One
needed only to look at the posters announcing the hideous productions of
the cinema and theatre, and study the names of the authors who were
highly lauded there in order to become permanently adamant on Jewish
questions. Here was a pestilence, a moral pestilence, with which the
public was being infected. It was worse than the Black Plague of long
ago. And in what mighty doses this poison was manufactured and
distributed. Naturally, the lower the moral and intellectual level of
such an author of artistic products the more inexhaustible his
fecundity. Sometimes it went so far that one of these fellows, acting
like a sewage pump, would shoot his filth directly in the face of other
members of the human race. In this connection we must remember there is
no limit to the number of such people. One ought to realize that for
one, Goethe, Nature may bring into existence ten thousand such
despoilers who act as the worst kind of germ-carriers in poisoning human
souls. It was a terrible thought, and yet it could not be avoided, that
the greater number of the Jews seemed specially destined by Nature to
play this shameful part.

And is it for this reason that they can be called the chosen people?

I began then to investigate carefully the names of all the fabricators
of these unclean products in public cultural life. The result of that
inquiry was still more disfavourable to the attitude which I had
hitherto held in regard to the Jews. Though my feelings might rebel a
thousand time, reason now had to draw its own conclusions.

The fact that nine-tenths of all the smutty literature, artistic tripe
and theatrical banalities, had to be charged to the account of people
who formed scarcely one per cent. of the nation--that fact could not be
gainsaid. It was there, and had to be admitted. Then I began to examine
my favourite 'World Press', with that fact before my mind.

The deeper my soundings went the lesser grew my respect for that Press
which I formerly admired. Its style became still more repellent and I
was forced to reject its ideas as entirely shallow and superficial. To
claim that in the presentation of facts and views its attitude was
impartial seemed to me to contain more falsehood than truth. The writers
were--Jews.

Thousands of details that I had scarcely noticed before seemed to me now
to deserve attention. I began to grasp and understand things which I had
formerly looked at in a different light.

I saw the Liberal policy of that Press in another light. Its dignified
tone in replying to the attacks of its adversaries and its dead silence
in other cases now became clear to me as part of a cunning and
despicable way of deceiving the readers. Its brilliant theatrical
criticisms always praised the Jewish authors and its adverse, criticism
was reserved exclusively for the Germans.

The light pin-pricks against William II showed the persistency of its
policy, just as did its systematic commendation of French culture and
civilization. The subject matter of the feuilletons was trivial and
often pornographic. The language of this Press as a whole had the accent
of a foreign people. The general tone was openly derogatory to the
Germans and this must have been definitely intentional.

What were the interests that urged the Vienna Press to adopt such a
policy? Or did they do so merely by chance? In attempting to find an
answer to those questions I gradually became more and more dubious.

Then something happened which helped me to come to an early decision. I
began to see through the meaning of a whole series of events that were
taking place in other branches of Viennese life. All these were inspired
by a general concept of manners and morals which was openly put into
practice by a large section of the Jews and could be established as
attributable to them. Here, again, the life which I observed on the
streets taught me what evil really is.

The part which the Jews played in the social phenomenon of prostitution,
and more especially in the white slave traffic, could be studied here
better than in any other West-European city, with the possible exception
of certain ports in Southern France. Walking by night along the streets
of the Leopoldstadt, almost at every turn whether one wished it or not,
one witnessed certain happenings of whose existence the Germans knew
nothing until the War made it possible and indeed inevitable for the
soldiers to see such things on the Eastern front.

A cold shiver ran down my spine when I first ascertained that it was the
same kind of cold-blooded, thick-skinned and shameless Jew who showed
his consummate skill in conducting that revolting exploitation of the
dregs of the big city. Then I became fired with wrath.

I had now no more hesitation about bringing the Jewish problem to light
in all its details. No. Henceforth I was determined to do so. But as I
learned to track down the Jew in all the different spheres of cultural
and artistic life, and in the various manifestations of this life
everywhere, I suddenly came upon him in a position where I had least
expected to find him. I now realized that the Jews were the leaders of
Social Democracy. In face of that revelation the scales fell from my
eyes. My long inner struggle was at an end.

In my relations with my fellow workmen I was often astonished to find
how easily and often they changed their opinions on the same questions,
sometimes within a few days and sometimes even within the course of a
few hours. I found it difficult to understand how men who always had
reasonable ideas when they spoke as individuals with one another
suddenly lost this reasonableness the moment they acted in the mass.
That phenomenon often tempted one almost to despair. I used to dispute
with them for hours and when I succeeded in bringing them to what I
considered a reasonable way of thinking I rejoiced at my success. But
next day I would find that it had been all in vain. It was saddening to
think I had to begin it all over again. Like a pendulum in its eternal
sway, they would fall back into their absurd opinions.

I was able to understand their position fully. They were dissatisfied
with their lot and cursed the fate which had hit them so hard. They
hated their employers, whom they looked upon as the heartless
administrators of their cruel destiny. Often they used abusive language
against the public officials, whom they accused of having no sympathy
with the situation of the working people. They made public protests
against the cost of living and paraded through the streets in defence of
their claims. At least all this could be explained on reasonable
grounds. But what was impossible to understand was the boundless hatred
they expressed against their own fellow citizens, how they disparaged
their own nation, mocked at its greatness, reviled its history and
dragged the names of its most illustrious men in the gutter.

This hostility towards their own kith and kin, their own native land and
home was as irrational as it was incomprehensible. It was against
Nature.

One could cure that malady temporarily, but only for some days or at
least some weeks. But on meeting those whom one believed to have been
converted one found that they had become as they were before. That
malady against Nature held them once again in its clutches.

I gradually discovered that the Social Democratic Press was
predominantly controlled by Jews. But I did not attach special
importance to this circumstance, for the same state of affairs existed
also in other newspapers. But there was one striking fact in this
connection. It was that there was not a single newspaper with which Jews
were connected that could be spoken of as National, in the meaning that
my education and convictions attached to that word.

Making an effort to overcome my natural reluctance, I tried to read
articles of this nature published in the Marxist Press; but in doing so
my aversion increased all the more. And then I set about learning
something of the people who wrote and published this mischievous stuff.
From the publisher downwards, all of them were Jews. I recalled to mind
the names of the public leaders of Marxism, and then I realized that
most of them belonged to the Chosen Race--the Social Democratic
representatives in the Imperial Cabinet as well as the secretaries of
the Trades Unions and the street agitators. Everywhere the same sinister
picture presented itself. I shall never forget the row of
names--Austerlitz, David, Adler, Ellenbogen, and others. One fact became
quite evident to me. It was that this alien race held in its hands the
leadership of that Social Democratic Party with whose minor
representatives I had been disputing for months past. I was happy at
last to know for certain that the Jew is not a German.

Thus I finally discovered who were the evil spirits leading our people
astray. The sojourn in Vienna for one year had proved long enough to
convince me that no worker is so rooted in his preconceived notions that
he will not surrender them in face of better and clearer arguments and
explanations. Gradually I became an expert in the doctrine of the
Marxists and used this knowledge as an instrument to drive home my own
firm convictions. I was successful in nearly every case. The great
masses can be rescued, but a lot of time and a large share of human
patience must be devoted to such work.

But a Jew can never be rescued from his fixed notions.

It was then simple enough to attempt to show them the absurdity of their
teaching. Within my small circle I talked to them until my throat ached
and my voice grew hoarse. I believed that I could finally convince them
of the danger inherent in the Marxist follies. But I only achieved the
contrary result. It seemed to me that immediately the disastrous effects
of the Marxist Theory and its application in practice became evident,
the stronger became their obstinacy.

The more I debated with them the more familiar I became with their
argumentative tactics. At the outset they counted upon the stupidity of
their opponents, but when they got so entangled that they could not find
a way out they played the trick of acting as innocent simpletons. Should
they fail, in spite of their tricks of logic, they acted as if they
could not understand the counter arguments and bolted away to another
field of discussion. They would lay down truisms and platitudes; and, if
you accepted these, then they were applied to other problems and matters
of an essentially different nature from the original theme. If you faced
them with this point they would escape again, and you could not bring
them to make any precise statement. Whenever one tried to get a firm
grip on any of these apostles one's hand grasped only jelly and slime
which slipped through the fingers and combined again into a solid mass a
moment afterwards. If your adversary felt forced to give in to your
argument, on account of the observers present, and if you then thought
that at last you had gained ground, a surprise was in store for you on
the following day. The Jew would be utterly oblivious to what had
happened the day before, and he would start once again by repeating his
former absurdities, as if nothing had happened. Should you become
indignant and remind him of yesterday's defeat, he pretended
astonishment and could not remember anything, except that on the
previous day he had proved that his statements were correct. Sometimes I
was dumbfounded. I do not know what amazed me the more--the abundance of
their verbiage or the artful way in which they dressed up their
falsehoods. I gradually came to hate them.

Yet all this had its good side; because the more I came to know the
individual leaders, or at least the propagandists, of Social Democracy,
my love for my own people increased correspondingly. Considering the
Satanic skill which these evil counsellors displayed, how could their
unfortunate victims be blamed? Indeed, I found it extremely difficult
myself to be a match for the dialectical perfidy of that race. How
futile it was to try to win over such people with argument, seeing that
their very mouths distorted the truth, disowning the very words they had
just used and adopting them again a few moments afterwards to serve
their own ends in the argument! No. The more I came to know the Jew, the
easier it was to excuse the workers.

In my opinion the most culpable were not to be found among the workers
but rather among those who did not think it worth while to take the
trouble to sympathize with their own kinsfolk and give to the
hard-working son of the national family what was his by the iron logic
of justice, while at the same time placing his seducer and corrupter
against the wall.

Urged by my own daily experiences, I now began to investigate more
thoroughly the sources of the Marxist teaching itself. Its effects were
well known to me in detail. As a result of careful observation, its
daily progress had become obvious to me. And one needed only a little
imagination in order to be able to forecast the consequences which must
result from it. The only question now was: Did the founders foresee the
effects of their work in the form which those effects have shown
themselves to-day, or were the founders themselves the victims of an
error? To my mind both alternatives were possible.

If the second question must be answered in the affirmative, then it was
the duty of every thinking person to oppose this sinister movement with
a view to preventing it from producing its worst results. But if the
first question must be answered in the affirmative, then it must be
admitted that the original authors of this evil which has infected the
nations were devils incarnate. For only in the brain of a monster, and
not that of a man, could the plan of this organization take shape whose
workings must finally bring about the collapse of human civilization and
turn this world into a desert waste.

Such being the case the only alternative left was to fight, and in that
fight to employ all the weapons which the human spirit and intellect and
will could furnish leaving it to Fate to decide in whose favour the
balance should fall.

And so I began to gather information about the authors of this teaching,
with a view to studying the principles of the movement. The fact that I
attained my object sooner than I could have anticipated was due to the
deeper insight into the Jewish question which I then gained, my
knowledge of this question being hitherto rather superficial. This newly
acquired knowledge alone enabled me to make a practical comparison
between the real content and the theoretical pretentiousness of the
teaching laid down by the apostolic founders of Social Democracy;
because I now understood the language of the Jew. I realized that the
Jew uses language for the purpose of dissimulating his thought or at
least veiling it, so that his real aim cannot be discovered by what he
says but rather by reading between the lines. This knowledge was the
occasion of the greatest inner revolution that I had yet experienced.
From being a soft-hearted cosmopolitan I became an out-and-out
anti-Semite.

Only on one further occasion, and that for the last time, did I give way
to oppressing thoughts which caused me some moments of profound anxiety.

As I critically reviewed the activities of the Jewish people throughout
long periods of history I became anxious and asked myself whether for
some inscrutable reasons beyond the comprehension of poor mortals such
as ourselves, Destiny may not have irrevocably decreed that the final
victory must go to this small nation? May it not be that this people
which has lived only for the earth has been promised the earth as a
recompense? is our right to struggle for our own self-preservation based
on reality, or is it a merely subjective thing? Fate answered the
question for me inasmuch as it led me to make a detached and exhaustive
inquiry into the Marxist teaching and the activities of the Jewish
people in connection with it.

The Jewish doctrine of Marxism repudiates the aristocratic principle of
Nature and substitutes for it the eternal privilege of force and energy,
numerical mass and its dead weight. Thus it denies the individual worth
of the human personality, impugns the teaching that nationhood and race
have a primary significance, and by doing this it takes away the very
foundations of human existence and human civilization. If the Marxist
teaching were to be accepted as the foundation of the life of the
universe, it would lead to the disappearance of all order that is
conceivable to the human mind. And thus the adoption of such a law would
provoke chaos in the structure of the greatest organism that we know,
with the result that the inhabitants of this earthly planet would
finally disappear.

Should the Jew, with the aid of his Marxist creed, triumph over the
people of this world, his Crown will be the funeral wreath of mankind,
and this planet will once again follow its orbit through ether, without
any human life on its surface, as it did millions of years ago.

And so I believe to-day that my conduct is in accordance with the will
of the Almighty Creator. In standing guard against the Jew I am
defending the handiwork of the Lord.




CHAPTER III



POLITICAL REFLECTIONS ARISING OUT OF MY SOJOURN IN VIENNA


Generally speaking a man should not publicly take part in politics
before he has reached the age of thirty, though, of course, exceptions
must be made in the case of those who are naturally gifted with
extraordinary political abilities. That at least is my opinion to-day.
And the reason for it is that until he reaches his thirtieth year or
thereabouts a man's mental development will mostly consist in acquiring
and sifting such knowledge as is necessary for the groundwork of a
general platform from which he can examine the different political
problems that arise from day to day and be able to adopt a definite
attitude towards each. A man must first acquire a fund of general ideas
and fit them together so as to form an organic structure of personal
thought or outlook on life--a WELTANSCHAUUNG. Then he will have that
mental equipment without which he cannot form his own judgments on
particular questions of the day, and he will have acquired those
qualities that are necessary for consistency and steadfastness in the
formation of political opinions. Such a man is now qualified, at least
subjectively, to take his part in the political conduct of public
affairs.

If these pre-requisite conditions are not fulfilled, and if a man should
enter political life without this equipment, he will run a twofold risk.
In the first place, he may find during the course of events that the
stand which he originally took in regard to some essential question was
wrong. He will now have to abandon his former position or else stick to
it against his better knowledge and riper wisdom and after his reason
and convictions have already proved it untenable. If he adopt the former
line of action he will find himself in a difficult personal situation;
because in giving up a position hitherto maintained he will appear
inconsistent and will have no right to expect his followers to remain as
loyal to his leadership as they were before. And, as regards the
followers themselves, they may easily look upon their leader's change of
policy as showing a lack of judgment inherent in his character.
Moreover, the change must cause in them a certain feeling of
discomfiture VIS-A`-VIS those whom the leader formerly opposed.

If he adopts the second alternative--which so very frequently happens
to-day--then public pronouncements of the leader have no longer his
personal persuasion to support them. And the more that is the case the
defence of his cause will be all the more hollow and superficial. He now
descends to the adoption of vulgar means in his defence. While he
himself no longer dreams seriously of standing by his political
protestations to the last--for no man will die in defence of something
in which he does not believe--he makes increasing demands on his
followers. Indeed, the greater be the measure of his own insincerity,
the more unfortunate and inconsiderate become his claims on his party
adherents. Finally, he throws aside the last vestiges of true leadership
and begins to play politics. This means that he becomes one of those
whose only consistency is their inconsistency, associated with
overbearing insolence and oftentimes an artful mendacity developed to a
shamelessly high degree.

Should such a person, to the misfortune of all decent people, succeed in
becoming a parliamentary deputy it will be clear from the outset that
for him the essence of political activity consists in a heroic struggle
to keep permanent hold on this milk-bottle as a source of livelihood for
himself and his family. The more his wife and children are dependent on
him, the more stubbornly will he fight to maintain for himself the
representation of his parliamentary constituency. For that reason any
other person who gives evidence of political capacity is his personal
enemy. In every new movement he will apprehend the possible beginning of
his own downfall. And everyone who is a better man than himself will
appear to him in the light of a menace.

I shall subsequently deal more fully with the problem to which this kind
of parliamentary vermin give rise.

When a man has reached his thirtieth year he has still a great deal to
learn. That is obvious. But henceforward what he learns will principally
be an amplification of his basic ideas; it will be fitted in with them
organically so as to fill up the framework of the fundamental
WELTANSCHAUUNG which he already possesses. What he learns anew will not
imply the abandonment of principles already held, but rather a deeper
knowledge of those principles. And thus his colleagues will never have
the discomforting feeling that they have been hitherto falsely led by
him. On the contrary, their confidence is increased when they perceive
that their leader's qualities are steadily developing along the lines of
an organic growth which results from the constant assimilation of new
ideas; so that the followers look upon this process as signifying an
enrichment of the doctrines in which they themselves believe, in their
eyes every such development is a new witness to the correctness of that
whole body of opinion which has hitherto been held.

A leader who has to abandon the platform founded on his general
principles, because he recognizes the foundation as false, can act with
honour only when he declares his readiness to accept the final
consequences of his erroneous views. In such a case he ought to refrain
from taking public part in any further political activity. Having once
gone astray on essential things he may possibly go astray a second time.
But, anyhow, he has no right whatsoever to expect or demand that his
fellow citizens should continue to give him their support.

How little such a line of conduct commends itself to our public leaders
nowadays is proved by the general corruption prevalent among the cabal
which at the present moment feels itself called to political leadership.
In the whole cabal there is scarcely one who is properly equipped for
this task.

Although in those days I used to give more time than most others to the
consideration of political question, yet I carefully refrained from
taking an open part in politics. Only to a small circle did I speak of
those things which agitated my mind or were the cause of constant
preoccupation for me. The habit of discussing matters within such a
restricted group had many advantages in itself. Rather than talk at
them, I learned to feel my way into the modes of thought and views of
those men around me. Oftentimes such ways of thinking and such views
were quite primitive. Thus I took every possible occasion to increase my
knowledge of men.

Nowhere among the German people was the opportunity for making such a
study so favourable as in Vienna.

In the old Danubian Monarchy political thought was wider in its range
and had a richer variety of interests than in the Germany of that
epoch--excepting certain parts of Prussia, Hamburg and the districts
bordering on the North Sea. When I speak of Austria here I mean that
part of the great Habsburg Empire which, by reason of its German
population, furnished not only the historic basis for the formation of
this State but whose population was for several centuries also the
exclusive source of cultural life in that political system whose
structure was so artificial. As time went on the stability of the
Austrian State and the guarantee of its continued existence depended
more and more on the maintenance of this germ-cell of that Habsburg
Empire.

The hereditary imperial provinces constituted the heart of the Empire.
And it was this heart that constantly sent the blood of life pulsating
through the whole political and cultural system. Corresponding to the
heart of the Empire, Vienna signified the brain and the will. At that
time Vienna presented an appearance which made one think of her as an
enthroned queen whose authoritative sway united the conglomeration of
heterogenous nationalities that lived under the Habsburg sceptre. The
radiant beauty of the capital city made one forget the sad symptoms of
senile decay which the State manifested as a whole.

Though the Empire was internally rickety because of the terrific
conflict going on between the various nationalities, the outside
world--and Germany in particular--saw only that lovely picture of the
city. The illusion was all the greater because at that time Vienna
seemed to have risen to its highest pitch of splendour. Under a Mayor,
who had the true stamp of administrative genius, the venerable
residential City of the Emperors of the old Empire seemed to have the
glory of its youth renewed. The last great German who sprang from the
ranks of the people that had colonized the East Mark was not a
'statesman', in the official sense. This Dr. Luegar, however, in his
ro^le as Mayor of 'the Imperial Capital and Residential City', had
achieved so much in almost all spheres of municipal activity, whether
economic or cultural, that the heart of the whole Empire throbbed with
renewed vigour. He thus proved himself a much greater statesman than the
so-called 'diplomats' of that period.

The fact that this political system of heterogeneous races called
AUSTRIA, finally broke down is no evidence whatsoever of political
incapacity on the part of the German element in the old East Mark. The
collapse was the inevitable result of an impossible situation. Ten
million people cannot permanently hold together a State of fifty
millions, composed of different and convicting nationalities, unless
certain definite pre-requisite conditions are at hand while there is
still time to avail of them.

The German-Austrian had very big ways of thinking. Accustomed to live in
a great Empire, he had a keen sense of the obligations incumbent on him
in such a situation. He was the only member of the Austrian State who
looked beyond the borders of the narrow lands belonging to the Crown and
took in all the frontiers of the Empire in the sweep of his mind. Indeed
when destiny severed him from the common Fatherland he tried to master
the tremendous task which was set before him as a consequence. This task
was to maintain for the German-Austrians that patrimony which, through
innumerable struggles, their ancestors had originally wrested from the
East. It must be remembered that the German-Austrians could not put
their undivided strength into this effort, because the hearts and minds
of the best among them were constantly turning back towards their
kinsfolk in the Motherland, so that only a fraction of their energy
remained to be employed at home.

The mental horizon of the German-Austrian was comparatively broad. His
commercial interests comprised almost every section of the heterogeneous
Empire. The conduct of almost all important undertakings was in his
hands. He provided the State, for the most part, with its leading
technical experts and civil servants. He was responsible for carrying on
the foreign trade of the country, as far as that sphere of activity was
not under Jewish control, The German-Austrian exclusively represented
the political cement that held the State together. His military duties
carried him far beyond the narrow frontiers of his homeland. Though the
recruit might join a regiment made up of the German element, the
regiment itself might be stationed in Herzegovina as well as in Vienna
or Galicia. The officers in the Habsburg armies were still Germans and
so was the predominating element in the higher branches of the civil
service. Art and science were in German hands. Apart from the new
artistic trash, which might easily have been produced by a negro tribe,
all genuine artistic inspiration came from the German section of the
population. In music, architecture, sculpture and painting, Vienna
abundantly supplied the entire Dual Monarchy. And the source never
seemed to show signs of a possible exhaustion. Finally, it was the
German element that determined the conduct of foreign policy, though a
small number of Hungarians were also active in that field.

All efforts, however, to save the unity of the State were doomed to end
in failure, because the essential pre-requisites were missing.

There was only one possible way to control and hold in check the
centrifugal forces of the different and differing nationalities. This
way was: to govern the Austrian State and organize it internally on the
principle of centralization. In no other way imaginable could the
existence of that State be assured.

Now and again there were lucid intervals in the higher ruling quarters
when this truth was recognized. But it was soon forgotten again, or else
deliberately ignored, because of the difficulties to be overcome in
putting it into practice. Every project which aimed at giving the Empire
a more federal shape was bound to be ineffective because there was no
strong central authority which could exercise sufficient power within
the State to hold the federal elements together. It must be remembered
in this connection that conditions in Austria were quite different from
those which characterized the German State as founded by Bismarck.
Germany was faced with only one difficulty, which was that of
transforming the purely political traditions, because throughout the
whole of Bismarck's Germany there was a common cultural basis. The
German Empire contained only members of one and the same racial or
national stock, with the exception of a few minor foreign fragments.

Demographic conditions in Austria were quite the reverse. With the
exception of Hungary there was no political tradition, coming down from
a great past, in any of the various affiliated countries. If there had
been, time had either wiped out all traces of it, or at least, rendered
them obscure. Moreover, this was the epoch when the principle of
nationality began to be in ascendant; and that phenomenon awakened the
national instincts in the various countries affiliated under the
Habsburg sceptre. It was difficult to control the action of these newly
awakened national forces; because, adjacent to the frontiers of the Dual
Monarchy, new national States were springing up whose people were of the
same or kindred racial stock as the respective nationalities that
constituted the Habsburg Empire. These new States were able to exercise
a greater influence than the German element.

Even Vienna could not hold out for a lengthy period in this conflict.
When Budapest had developed into a metropolis a rival had grown up whose
mission was, not to help in holding together the various divergent parts
of the Empire, but rather to strengthen one part. Within a short time
Prague followed the example of Budapest; and later on came Lemberg,
Laibach and others. By raising these places which had formerly been
provincial towns to the rank of national cities, rallying centres were
provided for an independent cultural life. Through this the local
national instincts acquired a spiritual foundation and therewith gained
a more profound hold on the people. The time was bound to come when the
particularist interests of those various countries would become stronger
than their common imperial interests. Once that stage had been reached,
Austria's doom was sealed.

The course of this development was clearly perceptible since the death
of Joseph II. Its rapidity depended on a number of factors, some of
which had their source in the Monarchy itself; while others resulted
from the position which the Empire had taken in foreign politics.

It was impossible to make anything like a successful effort for the
permanent consolidation of the Austrian State unless a firm and
persistent policy of centralization were put into force. Before
everything else the principle should have been adopted that only one
common language could be used as the official language of the State.
Thus it would be possible to emphasize the formal unity of that imperial
commonwealth. And thus the administration would have in its hands a
technical instrument without which the State could not endure as a
political unity. In the same way the school and other forms of education
should have been used to inculcate a feeling of common citizenship. Such
an objective could not be reached within ten or twenty years. The effort
would have to be envisaged in terms of centuries; just as in all
problems of colonization, steady perseverance is a far more important
element than the output of energetic effort at the moment.

It goes without saying that in such circumstances the country must be
governed and administered by strictly adhering to the principle of
uniformity.

For me it was quite instructive to discover why this did not take place,
or rather why it was not done. Those who were guilty of the omission
must be held responsible for the break-up of the Habsburg Empire.

More than any other State, the existence of the old Austria depended on
a strong and capable Government. The Habsburg Empire lacked ethnical
uniformity, which constitutes the fundamental basis of a national State
and will preserve the existence of such a State even though the ruling
power should be grossly inefficient. When a State is composed of a
homogeneous population, the natural inertia of such a population will
hold the Stage together and maintain its existence through astonishingly
long periods of misgovernment and maladministration. It may often seem
as if the principle of life had died out in such a body-politic; but a
time comes when the apparent corpse rises up and displays before the
world an astonishing manifestation of its indestructible vitality.

But the situation is utterly different in a country where the population
is not homogeneous, where there is no bond of common blood but only that
of one ruling hand. Should the ruling hand show signs of weakness in
such a State the result will not be to cause a kind of hibernation of
the State but rather to awaken the individualist instincts which are
slumbering in the ethnological groups. These instincts do not make
themselves felt as long as these groups are dominated by a strong
central will-to-govern. The danger which exists in these slumbering
separatist instincts can be rendered more or less innocuous only through
centuries of common education, common traditions and common interests.
The younger such States are, the more their existence will depend on the
ability and strength of the central government. If their foundation was
due only to the work of a strong personality or a leader who is a man of
genius, in many cases they will break up as soon as the founder
disappears; because, though great, he stood alone. But even after
centuries of a common education and experiences these separatist
instincts I have spoken of are not always completely overcome. They may
be only dormant and may suddenly awaken when the central government
shows weakness and the force of a common education as well as the
prestige of a common tradition prove unable to withstand the vital
energies of separatist nationalities forging ahead towards the shaping
of their own individual existence.

The failure to see the truth of all this constituted what may be called
the tragic crime of the Habsburg rulers.

Only before the eyes of one Habsburg ruler, and that for the last time,
did the hand of Destiny hold aloft the torch that threw light on the
future of his country. But the torch was then extinguished for ever.

Joseph II, Roman Emperor of the German nation, was filled with a growing
anxiety when he realized the fact that his House was removed to an
outlying frontier of his Empire and that the time would soon be at hand
when it would be overturned and engulfed in the whirlpool caused by that
Babylon of nationalities, unless something was done at the eleventh hour
to overcome the dire consequences resulting from the negligence of his
ancestors. With superhuman energy this 'Friend of Mankind' made every
possible effort to counteract the effects of the carelessness and
thoughtlessness of his predecessors. Within one decade he strove to
repair the damage that had been done through centuries. If Destiny had
only granted him forty years for his labours, and if only two
generations had carried on the work which he had started, the miracle
might have been performed. But when he died, broken in body and spirit
after ten years of rulership, his work sank with him into the grave and
rests with him there in the Capucin Crypt, sleeping its eternal sleep,
having never again showed signs of awakening.

His successors had neither the ability nor the will-power necessary for
the task they had to face.

When the first signs of a new revolutionary epoch appeared in Europe
they gradually scattered the fire throughout Austria. And when the fire
began to glow steadily it was fed and fanned not by the social or
political conditions but by forces that had their origin in the
nationalist yearnings of the various ethnic groups.

The European revolutionary movement of 1848 primarily took the form of a
class conflict in almost every other country, but in Austria it took the
form of a new racial struggle. In so far as the German-Austrians there
forgot the origins of the movement, or perhaps had failed to recognize
them at the start and consequently took part in the revolutionary
uprising, they sealed their own fate. For they thus helped to awaken the
spirit of Western Democracy which, within a short while, shattered the
foundations of their own existence.

The setting up of a representative parliamentary body, without insisting
on the preliminary that only one language should be used in all public
intercourse under the State, was the first great blow to the
predominance of the German element in the Dual Monarchy. From that
moment the State was also doomed to collapse sooner or later. All that
followed was nothing but the historical liquidation of an Empire.

To watch that process of progressive disintegration was a tragic and at
the same time an instructive experience. The execution of history's
decree was carried out in thousands of details. The fact that great
numbers of people went about blindfolded amid the manifest signs of
dissolution only proves that the gods had decreed the destruction of
Austria.

I do not wish to dwell on details because that would lie outside the
scope of this book. I want to treat in detail only those events which
are typical among the causes that lead to the decline of nations and
States and which are therefore of importance to our present age.
Moreover, the study of these events helped to furnish the basis of my
own political outlook.

Among the institutions which most clearly manifested unmistakable signs
of decay, even to the weak-sighted Philistine, was that which, of all
the institutions of State, ought to have been the most firmly founded--I
mean the Parliament, or the Reichsrat (Imperial Council) as it was
called in Austria.

The pattern for this corporate body was obviously that which existed in
England, the land of classic democracy. The whole of that excellent
organization was bodily transferred to Austria with as little alteration
as possible.

As the Austrian counterpart to the British two-chamber system a Chamber
of Deputies and a House of Lords (HERRENHAUS) were established in
Vienna. The Houses themselves, considered as buildings were somewhat
different. When Barry built his palaces, or, as we say the Houses of
Parliament, on the shore of the Thames, he could look to the history of
the British Empire for the inspiration of his work. In that history he
found sufficient material to fill and decorate the 1,200 niches,
brackets, and pillars of his magnificent edifice. His statues and
paintings made the House of Lords and the House of Commons temples
dedicated to the glory of the nation.

There it was that Vienna encountered the first difficulty. When Hansen,
the Danish architect, had completed the last gable of the marble palace
in which the new body of popular representatives was to be housed he had
to turn to the ancient classical world for subjects to fill out his
decorative plan. This theatrical shrine of 'Western Democracy' was
adorned with the statues and portraits of Greek and Roman statesmen and
philosophers. As if it were meant for a symbol of irony, the horses of
the quadriga that surmounts the two Houses are pulling apart from one
another towards all four quarters of the globe. There could be no better
symbol for the kind of activity going on within the walls of that same
building.

The 'nationalities' were opposed to any kind of glorification of
Austrian history in the decoration of this building, insisting that such
would constitute an offence to them and a provocation. Much the same
happened in Germany, where the Reich-stag, built by Wallot, was not
dedicated to the German people until the cannons were thundering in the
World War. And then it was dedicated by an inscription.

I was not yet twenty years of age when I first entered the Palace on the
Franzens-ring to watch and listen in the Chamber of Deputies. That first
experience aroused in me a profound feeling of repugnance.

I had always hated the Parliament, but not as an institution in itself.
Quite the contrary. As one who cherished ideals of political freedom I
could not even imagine any other form of government. In the light of my
attitude towards the House of Habsburg I should then have considered it
a crime against liberty and reason to think of any kind of dictatorship
as a possible form of government.

A certain admiration which I had for the British Parliament contributed
towards the formation of this opinion. I became imbued with that feeling
of admiration almost without my being conscious of the effect of it
through so much reading of newspapers while I was yet quite young. I
could not discard that admiration all in a moment. The dignified way in
which the British House of Commons fulfilled its function impressed me
greatly, thanks largely to the glowing terms in which the Austrian Press
reported these events. I used to ask myself whether there could be any
nobler form of government than self-government by the people.

But these considerations furnished the very motives of my hostility to
the Austrian Parliament. The form in which parliamentary government was
here represented seemed unworthy of its great prototype. The following
considerations also influenced my attitude:

The fate of the German element in the Austrian State depended on its
position in Parliament. Up to the time that universal suffrage by secret
ballot was introduced the German representatives had a majority in the
Parliament, though that majority was not a very substantial one. This
situation gave cause for anxiety because the Social-Democratic fraction
of the German element could not be relied upon when national questions
were at stake. In matters that were of critical concern for the German
element, the Social-Democrats always took up an anti-German stand
because they were afraid of losing their followers among the other
national groups. Already at that time--before the introduction of
universal suffrage--the Social-Democratic Party could no longer be
considered as a German Party. The introduction of universal suffrage put
an end even to the purely numerical predominance of the German element.
The way was now clear for the further 'de-Germanization' of the Austrian
State.

The national instinct of self-preservation made it impossible for me to
welcome a representative system in which the German element was not
really represented as such, but always betrayed by the Social-Democratic
fraction. Yet all these, and many others, were defects which could not
be attributed to the parliamentary system as such, but rather to the
Austrian State in particular. I still believed that if the German
majority could be restored in the representative body there would be no
occasion to oppose such a system as long as the old Austrian State
continued to exist.

Such was my general attitude at the time when I first entered those
sacred and contentious halls. For me they were sacred only because of
the radiant beauty of that majestic edifice. A Greek wonder on German
soil.

But I soon became enraged by the hideous spectacle that met my eyes.
Several hundred representatives were there to discuss a problem of great
economical importance and each representative had the right to have his
say.

That experience of a day was enough to supply me with food for thought
during several weeks afterwards.

The intellectual level of the debate was quite low. Some times the
debaters did not make themselves intelligible at all. Several of those
present did not speak German but only their Slav vernaculars or
dialects. Thus I had the opportunity of hearing with my own ears what I
had been hitherto acquainted with only through reading the newspapers. A
turbulent mass of people, all gesticulating and bawling against one
another, with a pathetic old man shaking his bell and making frantic
efforts to call the House to a sense of its dignity by friendly appeals,
exhortations, and grave warnings.

I could not refrain from laughing.

Several weeks later I paid a second visit. This time the House presented
an entirely different picture, so much so that one could hardly
recognize it as the same place. The hall was practically empty. They
were sleeping in the other rooms below. Only a few deputies were in
their places, yawning in each other's faces. One was speechifying. A
deputy speaker was in the chair. When he looked round it was quite plain
that he felt bored.

Then I began to reflect seriously on the whole thing. I went to the
Parliament whenever I had any time to spare and watched the spectacle
silently but attentively. I listened to the debates, as far as they
could be understood, and I studied the more or less intelligent features
of those 'elect' representatives of the various nationalities which
composed that motley State. Gradually I formed my own ideas about what I
saw.

A year of such quiet observation was sufficient to transform or
completely destroy my former convictions as to the character of this
parliamentary institution. I no longer opposed merely the perverted form
which the principle of parliamentary representation had assumed in
Austria. No. It had become impossible for me to accept the system in
itself. Up to that time I had believed that the disastrous deficiencies
of the Austrian Parliament were due to the lack of a German majority,
but now I recognized that the institution itself was wrong in its very
essence and form.

A number of problems presented themselves before my mind. I studied more
closely the democratic principle of 'decision by the majority vote', and
I scrutinized no less carefully the intellectual and moral worth of the
gentlemen who, as the chosen representatives of the nation, were
entrusted with the task of making this institution function.

Thus it happened that at one and the same time I came to know the
institution itself and those of whom it was composed. And it was thus
that, within the course of a few years, I came to form a clear and vivid
picture of the average type of that most lightly worshipped phenomenon
of our time--the parliamentary deputy. The picture of him which I then
formed became deeply engraved on my mind and I have never altered it
since, at least as far as essentials go.

Once again these object-lessons taken from real life saved me from
getting firmly entangled by a theory which at first sight seems so
alluring to many people, though that theory itself is a symptom of human
decadence.

Democracy, as practised in Western Europe to-day, is the fore-runner of
Marxism. In fact, the latter would not be conceivable without the
former. Democracy is the breeding-ground in which the bacilli of the
Marxist world pest can grow and spread. By the introduction of
parliamentarianism, democracy produced an abortion of filth and fire
(Note 6), the creative fire of which, however, seems to have died out.

[Note 6. SPOTTGEBURT VON DRECK UND FEUER. This is the epithet that Faust
hurls at Mephistopheles as the latter intrudes on the conversation
between Faust and Martha in the garden:

Mephistopheles: Thou, full of sensual, super-sensual desire,
                A girl by the nose is leading thee.
Faust: Abortion, thou of filth and fire.]

I am more than grateful to Fate that this problem came to my notice when
I was still in Vienna; for if I had been in Germany at that time I might
easily have found only a superficial solution. If I had been in Berlin
when I first discovered what an illogical thing this institution is
which we call Parliament, I might easily have gone to the other extreme
and believed--as many people believed, and apparently not without good
reason--that the salvation of the people and the Empire could be secured
only by restrengthening the principle of imperial authority. Those who
had this belief did not discern the tendencies of their time and were
blind to the aspirations of the people.

In Austria one could not be so easily misled. There it was impossible to
fall from one error into another. If the Parliament were worthless, the
Habsburgs were worse; or at least not in the slightest degree better.
The problem was not solved by rejecting the parliamentary system.
Immediately the question arose: What then? To repudiate and abolish the
Vienna Parliament would have resulted in leaving all power in the hands
of the Habsburgs. For me, especially, that idea was impossible.

Since this problem was specially difficult in regard to Austria, I was
forced while still quite young to go into the essentials of the whole
question more thoroughly than I otherwise should have done.

The aspect of the situation that first made the most striking impression
on me and gave me grounds for serious reflection was the manifest lack
of any individual responsibility in the representative body.

The parliament passes some acts or decree which may have the most
devastating consequences, yet nobody bears the responsibility for it.
Nobody can be called to account. For surely one cannot say that a
Cabinet discharges its responsibility when it retires after having
brought about a catastrophe. Or can we say that the responsibility is
fully discharged when a new coalition is formed or parliament dissolved?
Can the principle of responsibility mean anything else than the
responsibility of a definite person?

Is it at all possible actually to call to account the leaders of a
parliamentary government for any kind of action which originated in the
wishes of the whole multitude of deputies and was carried out under
their orders or sanction? Instead of developing constructive ideas and
plans, does the business of a statesman consist in the art of making a
whole pack of blockheads understand his projects? Is it his business to
entreat and coach them so that they will grant him their generous
consent?

Is it an indispensable quality in a statesman that he should possess a
gift of persuasion commensurate with the statesman's ability to conceive
great political measures and carry them through into practice?

Does it really prove that a statesman is incompetent if he should fail
to win over a majority of votes to support his policy in an assembly
which has been called together as the chance result of an electoral
system that is not always honestly administered.

Has there ever been a case where such an assembly has worthily appraised
a great political concept before that concept was put into practice and
its greatness openly demonstrated through its success?

In this world is not the creative act of the genius always a protest
against the inertia of the mass?

What shall the statesman do if he does not succeed in coaxing the
parliamentary multitude to give its consent to his policy? Shall he
purchase that consent for some sort of consideration?

Or, when confronted with the obstinate stupidity of his fellow citizens,
should he then refrain from pushing forward the measures which he deems
to be of vital necessity to the life of the nation? Should he retire or
remain in power?

In such circumstances does not a man of character find himself face to
face with an insoluble contradiction between his own political insight
on the one hand and, on the other, his moral integrity, or, better
still, his sense of honesty?

Where can we draw the line between public duty and personal honour?

Must not every genuine leader renounce the idea of degrading himself to
the level of a political jobber?

And, on the other hand, does not every jobber feel the itch to 'play
politics', seeing that the final responsibility will never rest with him
personally but with an anonymous mass which can never be called to
account for their deeds?

Must not our parliamentary principle of government by numerical majority
necessarily lead to the destruction of the principle of leadership?

Does anybody honestly believe that human progress originates in the
composite brain of the majority and not in the brain of the individual
personality?

Or may it be presumed that for the future human civilization will be
able to dispense with this as a condition of its existence?

But may it not be that, to-day, more than ever before, the creative
brain of the individual is indispensable?

The parliamentary principle of vesting legislative power in the decision
of the majority rejects the authority of the individual and puts a
numerical quota of anonymous heads in its place. In doing so it
contradicts the aristrocratic principle, which is a fundamental law of
nature; but, of course, we must remember that in this decadent era of
ours the aristrocratic principle need not be thought of as incorporated
in the upper ten thousand.

The devastating influence of this parliamentary institution might not
easily be recognized by those who read the Jewish Press, unless the
reader has learned how to think independently and examine the facts for
himself. This institution is primarily responsible for the crowded
inrush of mediocre people into the field of politics. Confronted with
such a phenomenon, a man who is endowed with real qualities of
leadership will be tempted to refrain from taking part in political
life; because under these circumstances the situation does not call for
a man who has a capacity for constructive statesmanship but rather for a
man who is capable of bargaining for the favour of the majority. Thus
the situation will appeal to small minds and will attract them
accordingly.

The narrower the mental outlook and the more meagre the amount of
knowledge in a political jobber, the more accurate is his estimate of
his own political stock, and thus he will be all the more inclined to
appreciate a system which does not demand creative genius or even
high-class talent; but rather that crafty kind of sagacity which makes
an efficient town clerk. Indeed, he values this kind of small craftiness
more than the political genius of a Pericles. Such a mediocrity does not
even have to worry about responsibility for what he does. From the
beginning he knows that whatever be the results of his 'statesmanship'
his end is already prescribed by the stars; he will one day have to
clear out and make room for another who is of similar mental calibre.
For it is another sign of our decadent times that the number of eminent
statesmen grows according as the calibre of individual personality
dwindles. That calibre will become smaller and smaller the more the
individual politician has to depend upon parliamentary majorities. A man
of real political ability will refuse to be the beadle for a bevy of
footling cacklers; and they in their turn, being the representatives of
the majority--which means the dunder-headed multitude--hate nothing so
much as a superior brain.

For footling deputies it is always quite a consolation to be led by a
person whose intellectual stature is on a level with their own. Thus
each one may have the opportunity to shine in debate among such compeers
and, above all, each one feels that he may one day rise to the top. If
Peter be boss to-day, then why not Paul tomorrow?

This new invention of democracy is very closely connected with a
peculiar phenomenon which has recently spread to a pernicious extent,
namely the cowardice of a large section of our so-called political
leaders. Whenever important decisions have to be made they always find
themselves fortunate in being able to hide behind the backs of what they
call the majority.

In observing one of these political manipulators one notices how he
wheedles the majority in order to get their sanction for whatever action
he takes. He has to have accomplices in order to be able to shift
responsibility to other shoulders whenever it is opportune to do so.
That is the main reason why this kind of political activity is abhorrent
to men of character and courage, while at the same time it attracts
inferior types; for a person who is not willing to accept responsibility
for his own actions, but is always seeking to be covered by something,
must be classed among the knaves and the rascals. If a national leader
should come from that lower class of politicians the evil consequences
will soon manifest themselves. Nobody will then have the courage to take
a decisive step. They will submit to abuse and defamation rather than
pluck up courage to take a definite stand. And thus nobody is left who
is willing to risk his position and his career, if needs be, in support
of a determined line of policy.

One truth which must always be borne in mind is that the majority can
never replace the man. The majority represents not only ignorance but
also cowardice. And just as a hundred blockheads do not equal one man of
wisdom, so a hundred poltroons are incapable of any political line of
action that requires moral strength and fortitude.

The lighter the burden of responsibility on each individual leader, the
greater will be the number of those who, in spite of their sorry
mediocrity, will feel the call to place their immortal energies at the
disposal of the nation. They are so much on the tip-toe of expectation
that they find it hard to wait their turn. They stand in a long queue,
painfully and sadly counting the number of those ahead of them and
calculating the hours until they may eventually come forward. They watch
every change that takes place in the personnel of the office towards
which their hopes are directed, and they are grateful for every scandal
which removes one of the aspirants waiting ahead of them in the queue.
If somebody sticks too long to his office stool they consider this as
almost a breach of a sacred understanding based on their mutual
solidarity. They grow furious and give no peace until that inconsiderate
person is finally driven out and forced to hand over his cosy berth for
public disposal. After that he will have little chance of getting
another opportunity. Usually those placemen who have been forced to give
up their posts push themselves again into the waiting queue unless they
are hounded away by the protestations of the other aspirants.

The result of all this is that, in such a State, the succession of
sudden changes in public positions and public offices has a very
disquieting effect in general, which may easily lead to disaster when an
adverse crisis arises. It is not only the ignorant and the incompetent
person who may fall victim to those parliamentary conditions, for the
genuine leader may be affected just as much as the others, if not more
so, whenever Fate has chanced to place a capable man in the position of
leader. Let the superior quality of such a leader be once recognized and
the result will be that a joint front will be organized against him,
particularly if that leader, though not coming from their ranks, should
fall into the habit of intermingling with these illustrious nincompoops
on their own level. They want to have only their own company and will
quickly take a hostile attitude towards any man who might show himself
obviously above and beyond them when he mingles in their ranks. Their
instinct, which is so blind in other directions, is very sharp in this
particular.

The inevitable result is that the intellectual level of the ruling class
sinks steadily. One can easily forecast how much the nation and State
are bound to suffer from such a condition of affairs, provided one does
not belong to that same class of 'leaders'.

The parliamentary re'gime in the old Austria was the very archetype of
the institution as I have described it.

Though the Austrian Prime Minister was appointed by the King-Emperor,
this act of appointment merely gave practical effect to the will of the
parliament. The huckstering and bargaining that went on in regard to
every ministerial position showed all the typical marks of Western
Democracy. The results that followed were in keeping with the principles
applied. The intervals between the replacement of one person by another
gradually became shorter, finally ending up in a wild relay chase. With
each change the quality of the 'statesman' in question deteriorated,
until finally only the petty type of political huckster remained. In
such people the qualities of statesmanship were measured and valued
according to the adroitness with which they pieced together one
coalition after another; in other words, their craftiness in
manipulating the pettiest political transactions, which is the only kind
of practical activity suited to the aptitudes of these representatives.

In this sphere Vienna was the school which offered the most impressive
examples.

Another feature that engaged my attention quite as much as the features
I have already spoken of was the contrast between the talents and
knowledge of these representatives of the people on the one hand and, on
the other, the nature of the tasks they had to face. Willingly or
unwillingly, one could not help thinking seriously of the narrow
intellectual outlook of these chosen representatives of the various
constituent nationalities, and one could not avoid pondering on the
methods through which these noble figures in our public life were first
discovered.

It was worth while to make a thorough study and examination of the way
in which the real talents of these gentlemen were devoted to the service
of their country; in other words, to analyse thoroughly the technical
procedure of their activities.

The whole spectacle of parliamentary life became more and more desolate
the more one penetrated into its intimate structure and studied the
persons and principles of the system in a spirit of ruthless
objectivity. Indeed, it is very necessary to be strictly objective in
the study of the institution whose sponsors talk of 'objectivity' in
every other sentence as the only fair basis of examination and judgment.
If one studied these gentlemen and the laws of their strenuous existence
the results were surprising.

There is no other principle which turns out to be quite so ill-conceived
as the parliamentary principle, if we examine it objectively.

In our examination of it we may pass over the methods according to which
the election of the representatives takes place, as well as the ways
which bring them into office and bestow new titles on them. It is quite
evident that only to a tiny degree are public wishes or public
necessities satisfied by the manner in which an election takes place;
for everybody who properly estimates the political intelligence of the
masses can easily see that this is not sufficiently developed to enable
them to form general political judgments on their own account, or to
select the men who might be competent to carry out their ideas in
practice.

Whatever definition we may give of the term 'public opinion', only a
very small part of it originates from personal experience or individual
insight. The greater portion of it results from the manner in which
public matters have been presented to the people through an
overwhelmingly impressive and persistent system of 'information'.

In the religious sphere the profession of a denominational belief is
largely the result of education, while the religious yearning itself
slumbers in the soul; so too the political opinions of the masses are
the final result of influences systematically operating on human
sentiment and intelligence in virtue of a method which is applied
sometimes with almost-incredible thoroughness and perseverance.

By far the most effective branch of political education, which in this
connection is best expressed by the word 'propaganda', is carried on by
the Press. The Press is the chief means employed in the process of
political 'enlightenment'. It represents a kind of school for adults.
This educational activity, however, is not in the hands of the State but
in the clutches of powers which are partly of a very inferior character.
While still a young man in Vienna I had excellent opportunities for
coming to know the men who owned this machine for mass instruction, as
well as those who supplied it with the ideas it distributed. At first I
was quite surprised when I realized how little time was necessary for
this dangerous Great Power within the State to produce a certain belief
among the public; and in doing so the genuine will and convictions of
the public were often completely misconstrued. It took the Press only a
few days to transform some ridiculously trivial matter into an issue of
national importance, while vital problems were completely ignored or
filched and hidden away from public attention.

The Press succeeded in the magical art of producing names from nowhere
within the course of a few weeks. They made it appear that the great
hopes of the masses were bound up with those names. And so they made
those names more popular than any man of real ability could ever hope to
be in a long lifetime. All this was done, despite the fact that such
names were utterly unknown and indeed had never been heard of even up to
a month before the Press publicly emblazoned them. At the same time old
and tried figures in the political and other spheres of life quickly
faded from the public memory and were forgotten as if they were dead,
though still healthy and in the enjoyment of their full viguour. Or
sometimes such men were so vilely abused that it looked as if their
names would soon stand as permanent symbols of the worst kind of
baseness. In order to estimate properly the really pernicious influence
which the Press can exercise one had to study this infamous Jewish
method whereby honourable and decent people were besmirched with mud and
filth, in the form of low abuse and slander, from hundreds and hundreds
of quarters simultaneously, as if commanded by some magic formula.

These highway robbers would grab at anything which might serve their
evil ends.

They would poke their noses into the most intimate family affairs and
would not rest until they had sniffed out some petty item which could be
used to destroy the reputation of their victim. But if the result of all
this sniffing should be that nothing derogatory was discovered in the
private or public life of the victim, they continued to hurl abuse at
him, in the belief that some of their animadversions would stick even
though refuted a thousand times. In most cases it finally turned out
impossible for the victim to continue his defence, because the accuser
worked together with so many accomplices that his slanders were
re-echoed interminably. But these slanderers would never own that they
were acting from motives which influence the common run of humanity or
are understood by them. Oh, no. The scoundrel who defamed his
contemporaries in this villainous way would crown himself with a halo of
heroic probity fashioned of unctuous phraseology and twaddle about his
'duties as a journalist' and other mouldy nonsense of that kind. When
these cuttle-fishes gathered together in large shoals at meetings and
congresses they would give out a lot of slimy talk about a special kind
of honour which they called the professional honour of the journalist.
Then the assembled species would bow their respects to one another.

These are the kind of beings that fabricate more than two-thirds of what
is called public opinion, from the foam of which the parliamentary
Aphrodite eventually arises.

Several volumes would be needed if one were to give an adequate account
of the whole procedure and fully describe all its hollow fallacies. But
if we pass over the details and look at the product itself while it is
in operation I think this alone will be sufficient to open the eyes of
even the most innocent and credulous person, so that he may recognize
the absurdity of this institution by looking at it objectively.

In order to realize how this human aberration is as harmful as it is
absurd, the test and easiest method is to compare democratic
parliamentarianism with a genuine German democracy.

The remarkable characteristic of the parliamentary form of democracy is
the fact that a number of persons, let us say five hundred--including,
in recent time, women also--are elected to parliament and invested with
authority to give final judgment on anything and everything. In practice
they alone are the governing body; for although they may appoint a
Cabinet, which seems outwardly to direct the affairs of state, this
Cabinet has not a real existence of its own. In reality the so-called
Government cannot do anything against the will of the assembly. It can
never be called to account for anything, since the right of decision is
not vested in the Cabinet but in the parliamentary majority. The Cabinet
always functions only as the executor of the will of the majority. Its
political ability can be judged only according to how far it succeeds in
adjusting itself to the will of the majority or in persuading the
majority to agree to its proposals. But this means that it must descend
from the level of a real governing power to that of a mendicant who has
to beg the approval of a majority that may be got together for the time
being. Indeed, the chief preoccupation of the Cabinet must be to secure
for itself, in the case of' each individual measure, the favour of the
majority then in power or, failing that, to form a new majority that
will be more favourably disposed. If it should succeed in either of
these efforts it may go on 'governing' for a little while. If it should
fail to win or form a majority it must retire. The question whether its
policy as such has been right or wrong does not matter at all.

Thereby all responsibility is abolished in practice. To what
consequences such a state of affairs can lead may easily be understood
from the following simple considerations:

Those five hundred deputies who have been elected by the people come
from various dissimilar callings in life and show very varying degrees
of political capacity, with the result that the whole combination is
disjointed and sometimes presents quite a sorry picture. Surely nobody
believes that these chosen representatives of the nation are the choice
spirits or first-class intellects. Nobody, I hope, is foolish enough to
pretend that hundreds of statesmen can emerge from papers placed in the
ballot box by electors who are anything else but averagely intelligent.
The absurd notion that men of genius are born out of universal suffrage
cannot be too strongly repudiated. In the first place, those times may
be really called blessed when one genuine statesman makes his appearance
among a people. Such statesmen do not appear all at once in hundreds or
more. Secondly, among the broad masses there is instinctively a definite
antipathy towards every outstanding genius. There is a better chance of
seeing a camel pass through the eye of a needle than of seeing a really
great man 'discovered' through an election.

Whatever has happened in history above the level of the average of the
broad public has mostly been due to the driving force of an individual
personality.

But here five hundred persons of less than modest intellectual qualities
pass judgment on the most important problems affecting the nation. They
form governments which in turn learn to win the approval of the
illustrious assembly for every legislative step that may be taken, which
means that the policy to be carried out is actually the policy of the
five hundred.

And indeed, generally speaking, the policy bears the stamp of its
origin.

But let us pass over the intellectual qualities of these representatives
and ask what is the nature of the task set before them. If we consider
the fact that the problems which have to be discussed and solved belong
to the most varied and diverse fields we can very well realize how
inefficient a governing system must be which entrusts the right of
decision to a mass assembly in which only very few possess the knowledge
and experience such as would qualify them to deal with the matters that
have to be settled. The most important economic measures are submitted
to a tribunal in which not more than one-tenth of the members have
studied the elements of economics. This means that final authority is
vested in men who are utterly devoid of any preparatory training which
might make them competent to decide on the questions at issue.

The same holds true of every other problem. It is always a majority of
ignorant and incompetent people who decide on each measure; for the
composition of the institution does not vary, while the problems to be
dealt with come from the most varied spheres of public life. An
intelligent judgment would be possible only if different deputies had
the authority to deal with different issues. It is out of the question
to think that the same people are fitted to decide on transport
questions as well as, let us say, on questions of foreign policy, unless
each of them be a universal genius. But scarcely more than one genius
appears in a century. Here we are scarcely ever dealing with real
brains, but only with dilettanti who are as narrow-minded as they are
conceited and arrogant, intellectual DEMI-MONDES of the worst kind. This
is why these honourable gentlemen show such astonishing levity in
discussing and deciding on matters that would demand the most
painstaking consideration even from great minds. Measures of momentous
importance for the future existence of the State are framed and
discussed in an atmosphere more suited to the card-table. Indeed the
latter suggests a much more fitting occupation for these gentlemen than
that of deciding the destinies of a people.

Of course it would be unfair to assume that each member in such a
parliament was endowed by nature with such a small sense of
responsibility. That is out of the question.

But this system, by forcing the individual to pass judgment on questions
for which he is not competent gradually debases his moral character.
Nobody will have the courage to say: "Gentlemen, I am afraid we know
nothing about what we are talking about. I for one have no competency in
the matter at all." Anyhow if such a declaration were made it would not
change matters very much; for such outspoken honesty would not be
understood. The person who made the declaration would be deemed an
honourable ass who ought not to be allowed to spoil the game. Those who
have a knowledge of human nature know that nobody likes to be considered
a fool among his associates; and in certain circles honesty is taken as
an index of stupidity.

Thus it happens that a naturally upright man, once he finds himself
elected to parliament, may eventually be induced by the force of
circumstances to acquiesce in a general line of conduct which is base in
itself and amounts to a betrayal of the public trust. That feeling that
if the individual refrained from taking part in a certain decision his
attitude would not alter the situation in the least, destroys every real
sense of honour which might occasionally arouse the conscience of one
person or another. Finally, the otherwise upright deputy will succeed in
persuading himself that he is by no means the worst of the lot and that
by taking part in a certain line of action he may prevent something
worse from happening.

A counter argument may be put forward here. It may be said that of
course the individual member may not have the knowledge which is
requisite for the treatment of this or that question, yet his attitude
towards it is taken on the advice of his Party as the guiding authority
in each political matter; and it may further be said that the Party sets
up special committees of experts who have even more than the requisite
knowledge for dealing with the questions placed before them.

At first sight, that argument seems sound. But then another question
arises--namely, why are five hundred persons elected if only a few have
the wisdom which is required to deal with the more important problems?

It is not the aim of our modern democratic parliamentary system to bring
together an assembly of intelligent and well-informed deputies. Not at
all. The aim rather is to bring together a group of nonentities who are
dependent on others for their views and who can be all the more easily
led, the narrower the mental outlook of each individual is. That is the
only way in which a party policy, according to the evil meaning it has
to-day, can be put into effect. And by this method alone it is possible
for the wirepuller, who exercises the real control, to remain in the
dark, so that personally he can never be brought to account for his
actions. For under such circumstances none of the decisions taken, no
matter how disastrous they may turn out for the nation as a whole, can
be laid at the door of the individual whom everybody knows to be the
evil genius responsible for the whole affair. All responsibility is
shifted to the shoulders of the Party as a whole.

In practice no actual responsibility remains. For responsibility arises
only from personal duty and not from the obligations that rest with a
parliamentary assembly of empty talkers.

The parliamentary institution attracts people of the badger type, who do
not like the open light. No upright man, who is ready to accept personal
responsibility for his acts, will be attracted to such an institution.

That is the reason why this brand of democracy has become a tool in the
hand of that race which, because of the inner purposes it wishes to
attain, must shun the open light, as it has always done and always will
do. Only a Jew can praise an institution which is as corrupt and false
as himself.

As a contrast to this kind of democracy we have the German democracy,
which is a true democracy; for here the leader is freely chosen and is
obliged to accept full responsibility for all his actions and omissions.
The problems to be dealt with are not put to the vote of the majority;
but they are decided upon by the individual, and as a guarantee of
responsibility for those decisions he pledges all he has in the world
and even his life.

The objection may be raised here that under such conditions it would be
very difficult to find a man who would be ready to devote himself to so
fateful a task. The answer to that objection is as follows:

We thank God that the inner spirit of our German democracy will of
itself prevent the chance careerist, who may be intellectually worthless
and a moral twister, from coming by devious ways to a position in which
he may govern his fellow-citizens. The fear of undertaking such
far-reaching responsibilities, under German democracy, will scare off
the ignorant and the feckless.

But should it happen that such a person might creep in surreptitiously
it will be easy enough to identify him and apostrophize him ruthlessly.
somewhat thus: "Be off, you scoundrel. Don't soil these steps with your
feet; because these are the steps that lead to the portals of the
Pantheon of History, and they are not meant for place-hunters but for
men of noble character."

Such were the views I formed after two years of attendance at the
sessions of the Viennese Parliament. Then I went there no more.

The parliamentary regime became one of the causes why the strength of
the Habsburg State steadily declined during the last years of its
existence. The more the predominance of the German element was whittled
away through parliamentary procedure, the more prominent became the
system of playing off one of the various constituent nationalities
against the other. In the Imperial Parliament it was always the German
element that suffered through the system, which meant that the results
were detrimental to the Empire as a whole; for at the close of the
century even the most simple-minded people could recognize that the
cohesive forces within the Dual Monarchy no longer sufficed to
counterbalance the separatist tendencies of the provincial
nationalities. On the contrary!

The measures which the State adopted for its own maintenance became more
and more mean spirited and in a like degree the general disrespect for
the State increased. Not only Hungary but also the various Slav
provinces gradually ceased to identify themselves with the monarchy
which embraced them all, and accordingly they did not feel its weakness
as in any way detrimental to themselves. They rather welcomed those
manifestations of senile decay. They looked forward to the final
dissolution of the State, and not to its recovery.

The complete collapse was still forestalled in Parliament by the
humiliating concessions that were made to every kind of importunate
demands, at the cost of the German element. Throughout the country the
defence of the State rested on playing off the various nationalities
against one another. But the general trend of this development was
directed against the Germans. Especially since the right of succession
to the throne conferred certain influence on the Archduke Franz
Ferdinand, the policy of increasing the power of the Czechs was carried
out systematically from the upper grades of the administration down to
the lower. With all the means at his command the heir to the Dual
Monarchy personally furthered the policy that aimed at eliminating the
influence of the German element, or at least he acted as protector of
that policy. By the use of State officials as tools, purely German
districts were gradually but decisively brought within the danger zone
of the mixed languages. Even in Lower Austria this process began to make
headway with a constantly increasing tempo and Vienna was looked upon by
the Czechs as their biggest city.

In the family circle of this new Habsburger the Czech language was
favoured. The wife of the Archduke had formerly been a Czech Countess
and was wedded to the Prince by a morganatic marriage. She came from an
environment where hostility to the Germans had been traditional. The
leading idea in the mind of the Archduke was to establish a Slav State
in Central Europe, which was to be constructed on a purely Catholic
basis, so as to serve as a bulwark against Orthodox Russia.

As had happened often in Habsburg history, religion was thus exploited
to serve a purely political policy, and in this case a fatal policy, at
least as far as German interests were concerned. The result was
lamentable in many respects.

Neither the House of Habsburg nor the Catholic Church received the
reward which they expected. Habsburg lost the throne and the Church lost
a great State. By employing religious motives in the service of
politics, a spirit was aroused which the instigators of that policy had
never thought possible.

From the attempt to exterminate Germanism in the old monarchy by every
available means arose the Pan-German Movement in Austria, as a response.

In the 'eighties of the last century Manchester Liberalism, which was
Jewish in its fundamental ideas, had reached the zenith of its influence
in the Dual Monarchy, or had already passed that point. The reaction
which set in did not arise from social but from nationalistic
tendencies, as was always the case in the old Austria. The instinct of
self-preservation drove the German element to defend itself
energetically. Economic considerations only slowly began to gain an
important influence; but they were of secondary concern. But of the
general political chaos two party organizations emerged. The one was
more of a national, and the other more of a social, character; but both
were highly interesting and instructive for the future.

After the war of 1866, which had resulted in the humiliation of Austria,
the House of Habsburg contemplated a REVANCHE on the battlefield. Only
the tragic end of the Emperor Maximilian of Mexico prevented a still
closer collaboration with France. The chief blame for Maximilian's
disastrous expedition was attributed to Napoleon III and the fact that
the Frenchman left him in the lurch aroused a general feeling of
indignation. Yet the Habsburgs were still lying in wait for their
opportunity. If the war of 1870-71 had not been such a singular triumph,
the Viennese Court might have chanced the game of blood in order to get
its revenge for Sadowa. But when the first reports arrived from the
Franco-German battlefield, which, though true, seemed miraculous and
almost incredible, the 'most wise' of all monarchs recognized that the
moment was inopportune and tried to accept the unfavourable situation
with as good a grace as possible.

The heroic conflict of those two years (1870-71) produced a still
greater miracle; for with the Habsburgs the change of attitude never
came from an inner heartfelt urge but only from the pressure of
circumstances. The German people of the East Mark, however, were
entranced by the triumphant glory of the newly established German Empire
and were profoundly moved when they saw the dream of their fathers
resurgent in a magnificent reality.

For--let us make no mistake about it--the true German-Austrian realized
from this time onward, that Ko"niggra"tz was the tragic, though necessary,
pre-condition for the re-establishment of an Empire which should no
longer be burdened with the palsy of the old alliance and which indeed
had no share in that morbid decay. Above all, the German-Austrian had
come to feel in the very depths of his own being that the historical
mission of the House of Habsburg had come to an end and that the new
Empire could choose only an Emperor who was of heroic mould and was
therefore worthy to wear the 'Crown of the Rhine'. It was right and just
that Destiny should be praised for having chosen a scion of that House
of which Frederick the Great had in past times given the nation an
elevated and resplendent symbol for all time to come.

After the great war of 1870-71 the House of Habsburg set to work with
all its determination to exterminate the dangerous German element--about
whose inner feelings and attitude there could be no doubt--slowly but
deliberately. I use the word exterminate, because that alone expresses
what must have been the final result of the Slavophile policy. Then it
was that the fire of rebellion blazed up among the people whose
extermination had been decreed. That fire was such as had never been
witnessed in modern German history.

For the first time nationalists and patriots were transformed into
rebels.

Not rebels against the nation or the State as such but rebels against
that form of government which they were convinced, would inevitably
bring about the ruin of their own people. For the first time in modern
history the traditional dynastic patriotism and national love of
fatherland and people were in open conflict.

It was to the merit of the Pan-German movement in Austria during the
closing decade of the last century that it pointed out clearly and
unequivocally that a State is entitled to demand respect and protection
for its authority only when such authority is administered in accordance
with the interests of the nation, or at least not in a manner
detrimental to those interests.

The authority of the State can never be an end in itself; for, if that
were so, any kind of tyranny would be inviolable and sacred.

If a government uses the instruments of power in its hands for the
purpose of leading a people to ruin, then rebellion is not only the
right but also the duty of every individual citizen.

The question of whether and when such a situation exists cannot be
answered by theoretical dissertations but only by the exercise of force,
and it is success that decides the issue.

Every government, even though it may be the worst possible and even
though it may have betrayed the nation's trust in thousands of ways,
will claim that its duty is to uphold the authority of the State. Its
adversaries, who are fighting for national self-preservation, must use
the same weapons which the government uses if they are to prevail
against such a rule and secure their own freedom and independence.
Therefore the conflict will be fought out with 'legal' means as long as
the power which is to be overthrown uses them; but the insurgents will
not hesitate to apply illegal means if the oppressor himself employs
them.

Generally speaking, we must not forget that the highest aim of human
existence is not the maintenance of a State of Government but rather the
conservation of the race.

If the race is in danger of being oppressed or even exterminated the
question of legality is only of secondary importance. The established
power may in such a case employ only those means which are recognized as
'legal'. yet the instinct of self-preservation on the part of the
oppressed will always justify, to the highest degree, the employment of
all possible resources.

Only on the recognition of this principle was it possible for those
struggles to be carried through, of which history furnishes magnificent
examples in abundance, against foreign bondage or oppression at home.

Human rights are above the rights of the State. But if a people be
defeated in the struggle for its human rights this means that its weight
has proved too light in the scale of Destiny to have the luck of being
able to endure in this terrestrial world.

The world is not there to be possessed by the faint-hearted races.



Austria affords a very clear and striking example of how easy it is for
tyranny to hide its head under the cloak of what is called 'legality'.

The legal exercise of power in the Habsburg State was then based on the
anti-German attitude of the parliament, with its non-German majorities,
and on the dynastic House, which was also hostile to the German element.
The whole authority of the State was incorporated in these two factors.
To attempt to alter the lot of the German element through these two
factors would have been senseless. Those who advised the 'legal' way as
the only possible way, and also obedience to the State authority, could
offer no resistance; because a policy of resistance could not have been
put into effect through legal measures. To follow the advice of the
legalist counsellors would have meant the inevitable ruin of the German
element within the Monarchy, and this disaster would not have taken long
to come. The German element has actually been saved only because the
State as such collapsed.

The spectacled theorist would have given his life for his doctrine
rather than for his people.

Because man has made laws he subsequently comes to think that he exists
for the sake of the laws.

A great service rendered by the pan-German movement then was that it
abolished all such nonsense, though the doctrinaire theorists and other
fetish worshippers were shocked.

When the Habsburgs attempted to come to close quarters with the German
element, by the employment of all the means of attack which they had at
their command, the Pan-German Party hit out ruthlessly against the
'illustrious' dynasty. This Party was the first to probe into and expose
the corrupt condition of the State; and in doing so they opened the eyes
of hundreds of thousands. To have liberated the high ideal of love for
one's country from the embrace of this deplorable dynasty was one of the
great services rendered by the Pan-German movement.

When that Party first made its appearance it secured a large
following--indeed, the movement threatened to become almost an
avalanche. But the first successes were not maintained. At the time I
came to Vienna the pan-German Party had been eclipsed by the
Christian-Socialist Party, which had come into power in the meantime.
Indeed, the Pan-German Party had sunk to a level of almost complete
insignificance.

The rise and decline of the Pan-German movement on the one hand and the
marvellous progress of the Christian-Socialist Party on the other,
became a classic object of study for me, and as such they played an
important part in the development of my own views.

When I came to Vienna all my sympathies were exclusively with the
Pan-German Movement.

I was just as much impressed by the fact that they had the courage to
shout HEIL HOHENZOLLERN as I rejoiced at their determination to consider
themselves an integral part of the German Empire, from which they were
separated only provisionally. They never missed an opportunity to
explain their attitude in public, which raised my enthusiasm and
confidence. To avow one's principles publicly on every problem that
concerned Germanism, and never to make any compromises, seemed to me the
only way of saving our people. What I could not understand was how this
movement broke down so soon after such a magnificent start; and it was
no less incomprehensible that the Christian-Socialists should gain such
tremendous power within such a short time. They had just reached the
pinnacle of their popularity.

When I began to compare those two movements Fate placed before me the
best means of understanding the causes of this puzzling problem. The
action of Fate in this case was hastened by my own straitened
circumstances.

I shall begin my analysis with an account of the two men who must be
regarded as the founders and leaders of the two movements. These were
George von Scho"nerer and Dr. Karl Lueger.

As far as personality goes, both were far above the level and stature of
the so-called parliamentary figures. They lived lives of immaculate and
irreproachable probity amidst the miasma of all-round political
corruption. Personally I first liked the Pan-German representative,
Scho"nerer, and it was only afterwards and gradually that I felt an equal
liking for the Christian-Socialist leader.

When I compared their respective abilities Scho"nerer seemed to me a
better and more profound thinker on fundamental problems. He foresaw the
inevitable downfall of the Austrian State more clearly and accurately
than anyone else. If this warning in regard to the Habsburg Empire had
been heeded in Germany the disastrous world war, which involved Germany
against the whole of Europe, would never have taken place.

But though Scho"nerer succeeded in penetrating to the essentials of a
problem he was very often much mistaken in his judgment of men.

And herein lay Dr. Lueger's special talent. He had a rare gift of
insight into human nature and he was very careful not to take men as
something better than they were in reality. He based his plans on the
practical possibilities which human life offered him, whereas Scho"nerer
had only little discrimination in that respect. All ideas that this
Pan-German had were right in the abstract, but he did not have the
forcefulness or understanding necessary to put his ideas across to the
broad masses. He was not able to formulate them so that they could be
easily grasped by the masses, whose powers of comprehension are limited
and will always remain so. Therefore all Scho"nerer's knowledge was only
the wisdom of a prophet and he never could succeed in having it put into
practice.

This lack of insight into human nature led him to form a wrong estimate
of the forces behind certain movements and the inherent strength of old
institutions.

Scho"nerer indeed realized that the problems he had to deal with were in
the nature of a WELTANSCHAUUNG; but he did not understand that only the
broad masses of a nation can make such convictions prevail, which are
almost of a religious nature.

Unfortunately he understood only very imperfectly how feeble is the
fighting spirit of the so-called bourgeoisie. That weakness is due to
their business interests, which individuals are too much afraid of
risking and which therefore deter them from taking action. And,
generally speaking, a WELTANSCHAUUNG can have no prospect of success
unless the broad masses declare themselves ready to act as its
standard-bearers and to fight on its behalf wherever and to whatever
extent that may be necessary.

This failure to understand the importance of the lower strata of the
population resulted in a very inadequate concept of the social problem.

In all this Dr. Lueger was the opposite of Scho"nerer. His profound
knowledge of human nature enabled him to form a correct estimate of the
various social forces and it saved him from under-rating the power of
existing institutions. And it was perhaps this very quality which
enabled him to utilize those institutions as a means to serve the
purposes of his policy.

He saw only too clearly that, in our epoch, the political fighting power
of the upper classes is quite insignificant and not at all capable of
fighting for a great new movement until the triumph of that movement be
secured. Thus he devoted the greatest part of his political activity to
the task of winning over those sections of the population whose
existence was in danger and fostering the militant spirit in them rather
than attempting to paralyse it. He was also quick to adopt all available
means for winning the support of long-established institutions, so as to
be able to derive the greatest possible advantage for his movement from
those old sources of power.

Thus it was that, first of all, he chose as the social basis of his new
Party that middle class which was threatened with extinction. In this
way he secured a solid following which was willing to make great
sacrifices and had good fighting stamina. His extremely wise attitude
towards the Catholic Church rapidly won over the younger clergy in such
large numbers that the old Clerical Party was forced to retire from the
field of action or else, which was the wiser course, join the new Party,
in the hope of gradually winning back one position after another.

But it would be a serious injustice to the man if we were to regard this
as his essential characteristic. For he possessed the qualities of an
able tactician, and had the true genius of a great reformer; but all
these were limited by his exact perception of the possibilities at hand
and also of his own capabilities.

The aims which this really eminent man decided to pursue were intensely
practical. He wished to conquer Vienna, the heart of the Monarchy. It
was from Vienna that the last pulses of life beat through the diseased
and worn-out body of the decrepit Empire. If the heart could be made
healthier the others parts of the body were bound to revive. That idea
was correct in principle; but the time within which it could be applied
in practice was strictly limited. And that was the man's weak point.

His achievements as Burgomaster of the City of Vienna are immortal, in
the best sense of the word. But all that could not save the Monarchy. It
came too late.

His rival, Scho"nerer, saw this more clearly. What Dr. Lueger undertook
to put into practice turned out marvellously successful. But the results
which he expected to follow these achievements did not come. Scho"nerer
did not attain the ends he had proposed to himself; but his fears were
realized, alas, in a terrible fashion. Thus both these men failed to
attain their further objectives. Lueger could not save Austria and
Scho"nerer could not prevent the downfall of the German people in
Austria.

To study the causes of failure in the case of these two parties is to
learn a lesson that is highly instructive for our own epoch. This is
specially useful for my friends, because in many points the
circumstances of our own day are similar to those of that time.
Therefore such a lesson may help us to guard against the mistakes which
brought one of those movements to an end and rendered the other barren
of results.

In my opinion, the wreck of the Pan-German Movement in Austria must be
attributed to three causes.

The first of these consisted in the fact that the leaders did not have a
clear concept of the importance of the social problem, particularly for
a new movement which had an essentially revolutionary character.
Scho"nerer and his followers directed their attention principally to the
bourgeois classes. For that reason their movement was bound to turn out
mediocre and tame. The German bourgeoisie, especially in its upper
circles, is pacifist even to the point of complete
self-abnegation--though the individual may not be aware of
this--wherever the internal affairs of the nation or State are
concerned. In good times, which in this case means times of good
government, such a psychological attitude makes this social layer
extraordinarily valuable to the State. But when there is a bad
government, such a quality has a destructive effect. In order to assure
the possibility of carrying through a really strenuous struggle, the
Pan-German Movement should have devoted its efforts to winning over the
masses. The failure to do this left the movement from the very beginning
without the elementary impulse which such a wave needs if it is not to
ebb within a short while.

In failing to see the truth of this principle clearly at the very outset
of the movement and in neglecting to put it into practice the new Party
made an initial mistake which could not possibly be rectified
afterwards. For the numerous moderate bourgeois elements admitted into
the movements increasingly determined its internal orientation and thus
forestalled all further prospects of gaining any appreciable support
among the masses of the people. Under such conditions such a movement
could not get beyond mere discussion and criticism. Quasi-religious
faith and the spirit of sacrifice were not to be found in the movement
any more. Their place was taken by the effort towards 'positive'
collaboration, which in this case meant the acknowledgment of the
existing state of affairs, gradually whittling away the rough corners of
the questions in dispute, and ending up with the making of a
dishonourable peace.

Such was the fate of the Pan-German Movement, because at the start the
leaders did not realize that the most important condition of success was
that they should recruit their following from the broad masses of the
people. The Movement thus became bourgeois and respectable and radical
only in moderation.

From this failure resulted the second cause of its rapid decline.

The position of the Germans in Austria was already desperate when
Pan-Germanism arose. Year after year Parliament was being used more and
more as an instrument for the gradual extinction of the German-Austrian
population. The only hope for any eleventh-hour effort to save it lay in
the overthrow of the parliamentary system; but there was very little
prospect of this happening.

Therewith the Pan-German Movement was confronted with a question of
primary importance.

To overthrow the Parliament, should the Pan-Germanists have entered it
'to undermine it from within', as the current phrase was? Or should they
have assailed the institution as such from the outside?

They entered the Parliament and came out defeated. But they had found
themselves obliged to enter.

For in order to wage an effective war against such a power from the
outside, indomitable courage and a ready spirit of sacrifice were
necessary weapons. In such cases the bull must be seized by the horns.
Furious drives may bring the assailant to the ground again and again;
but if he has a stout heart he will stand up, even though some bones may
be broken, and only after a long and tough struggle will he achieve his
triumph. New champions are attracted to a cause by the appeal of great
sacrifices made for its sake, until that indomitable spirit is finally
crowned with success.

For such a result, however, the children of the people from the great
masses are necessary. They alone have the requisite determination and
tenacity to fight a sanguinary issue through to the end. But the
Pan-German Movement did not have these broad masses as its champions,
and so no other means of solution could be tried out except that of
entering Parliamcnt.

It would be a mistake to think that this decision resulted from a long
series of internal hesitations of a moral kind, or that it was the
outcome of careful calculation. No. They did not even think of another
solution. Those who participated in this blunder were actuated by
general considerations and vague notions as to what would be the
significance and effect of taking part in such a special way in that
institution which they had condemned on principle. In general they hoped
that they would thus have the means of expounding their cause to the
great masses of the people, because they would be able to speak before
'the forum of the whole nation'. Also, it seemed reasonable to believe
that by attacking the evil in the root they would be more effective than
if the attack came from outside. They believed that, if protected by the
immunity of Parliament, the position of the individual protagonists
would be strengthened and that thus the force of their attacks would be
enhanced.

In reality everything turned out quite otherwise.

The Forum before which the Pan-German representatives spoke had not
grown greater, but had actually become smaller; for each spoke only to
the circle that was ready to listen to him or could read the report of
his speech in the newspapers.

But the greater forum of immediate listeners is not the parliamentary
auditorium: it is the large public meeting. For here alone will there be
thousands of men who have come simply to hear what a speaker has to say,
whereas in the parliamentary sittings only a few hundred are present;
and for the most part these are there only to earn their daily allowance
for attendance and not to be enlightened by the wisdom of one or other
of the 'representatives of the people'.

The most important consideration is that the same public is always
present and that this public does not wish to learn anything new;
because, setting aside the question of its intelligence, it lacks even
that modest quantum of will-power which is necessary for the effort of
learning.

Not one of the representatives of the people will pay homage to a
superior truth and devote himself to its service. No. Not one of these
gentry will act thus, except he has grounds for hoping that by such a
conversion he may be able to retain the representation of his
constituency in the coming legislature. Therefore, only when it becomes
quite clear that the old party is likely to have a bad time of it at the
forthcoming elections--only then will those models of manly virtue set
out in search of a new party or a new policy which may have better
electoral prospects; but of course this change of position will be
accompanied by a veritable deluge of high moral motives to justify it.
And thus it always happens that when an existing Party has incurred such
general disfavour among the public that it is threatened with the
probability of a crushing defeat, then a great migration commences. The
parliamentary rats leave the Party ship.

All this happens not because the individuals in the case have become
better informed on the questions at issue and have resolved to act
accordingly. These changes of front are evidence only of that gift of
clairvoyance which warns the parliamentary flea at the right moment and
enables him to hop into another warm Party bed.

To speak before such a forum signifies casting pearls before certain
animals.

Verily it does not repay the pains taken; for the result must always be
negative.

And that is actually what happened. The Pan-German representatives might
have talked themselves hoarse, but to no effect whatsoever.

The Press either ignored them totally or so mutilated their speeches
that the logical consistency was destroyed or the meaning twisted round
in such a way that the public got only a very wrong impression regarding
the aims of the new movement. What the individual members said was not
of importance. The important matter was what people read as coming from
them. This consisted of mere extracts which had been torn out of the
context of the speeches and gave an impression of incoherent nonsense,
which indeed was purposely meant. Thus the only public before which they
really spoke consisted merely of five hundred parliamentarians; and that
says enough.

The worst was the following:

The Pan-German Movement could hope for success only if the leaders
realized from the very first moment that here there was no question so
much of a new Party as of a new WELTANSCHAUUNG. This alone could arouse
the inner moral forces that were necessary for such a gigantic struggle.
And for this struggle the leaders must be men of first-class brains and
indomitable courage. If the struggle on behalf of a WELTANSCHAUUNG is
not conducted by men of heroic spirit who are ready to sacrifice,
everything, within a short while it will become impossible to find real
fighting followers who are ready to lay down their lives for the cause.
A man who fights only for his own existence has not much left over for
the service of the community.

In order to secure the conditions that are necessary for success,
everybody concerned must be made to understand that the new movement
looks to posterity for its honour and glory but that it has no
recompense to offer to the present-day members. If a movement should
offer a large number of positions and offices that are easily accessible
the number of unworthy candidates admitted to membership will be
constantly on the increase and eventually a day will come when there
will be such a preponderance of political profiteers among the
membership of a successful Party that the combatants who bore the brunt
of the battle in the earlier stages of the movement can now scarcely
recognize their own Party and may be ejected by the later arrivals as
unwanted ballast. Therewith the movement will no longer have a mission
to fulfil.

Once the Pan-Germanists decided to collaborate with Parliament they were
no longer leaders and combatants in a popular movement, but merely
parliamentarians. Thus the Movement sank to the common political party
level of the day and no longer had the strength to face a hostile fate
and defy the risk of martyrdom. Instead of fighting, the Pan-German
leaders fell into the habit of talking and negotiating. The new
parliamentarians soon found that it was a more satisfactory, because
less risky, way of fulfilling their task if they would defend the new
WELTANSCHAUUNG with the spiritual weapon of parliamentary rhetoric
rather than take up a fight in which they placed their lives in danger,
the outcome of which also was uncertain and even at the best could offer
no prospect of personal gain for themselves.

When they had taken their seats in Parliament their adherents outside
hoped and waited for miracles to happen. Naturally no such miracles
happened or could happen. Whereupon the adherents of the movement soon
grew impatient, because reports they read about their own deputies did
not in the least come up to what had been expected when they voted for
these deputies at the elections. The reason for this was not far to
seek. It was due to the fact that an unfriendly Press refrained from
giving a true account of what the Pan-German representatives of the
people were actually doing.

According as the new deputies got to like this mild form of
'revolutionary' struggle in Parliament and in the provincial diets they
gradually became reluctant to resume the more hazardous work of
expounding the principles of the movement before the broad masses of the
people.

Mass meetings in public became more and more rare, though these are the
only means of exercising a really effective influence on the people;
because here the influence comes from direct personal contact and in
this way the support of large sections of the people can be obtained.

When the tables on which the speakers used to stand in the great
beer-halls, addressing an assembly of thousands, were deserted for the
parliamentary tribune and the speeches were no longer addressed to the
people directly but to the so-called 'chosen' representatives, the
Pan-German Movement lost its popular character and in a little while
degenerated to the level of a more or less serious club where problems
of the day are discussed academically.

The wrong impression created by the Press was no longer corrected by
personal contact with the people through public meetings, whereby the
individual representatives might have given a true account of their
activities. The final result of this neglect was that the word
'Pan-German' came to have an unpleasant sound in the ears of the masses.

The knights of the pen and the literary snobs of to-day should be made
to realize that the great transformations which have taken place in this
world were never conducted by a goosequill. No. The task of the pen must
always be that of presenting the theoretical concepts which motivate
such changes. The force which has ever and always set in motion great
historical avalanches of religious and political movements is the magic
power of the spoken word.

The broad masses of a population are more amenable to the appeal of
rhetoric than to any other force. All great movements are popular
movements. They are the volcanic eruptions of human passions and
emotions, stirred into activity by the ruthless Goddess of Distress or
by the torch of the spoken word cast into the midst of the people. In no
case have great movements been set afoot by the syrupy effusions of
aesthetic litte'rateurs and drawing-room heroes.

The doom of a nation can be averted only by a storm of glowing passion;
but only those who are passionate themselves can arouse passion in
others. It is only through the capacity for passionate feeling that
chosen leaders can wield the power of the word which, like hammer blows,
will open the door to the hearts of the people.

He who is not capable of passionate feeling and speech was never chosen
by Providence to be the herald of its will. Therefore a writer should
stick to his ink-bottle and busy himself with theoretical questions if
he has the requisite ability and knowledge. He has not been born or
chosen to be a leader.

A movement which has great ends to achieve must carefully guard against
the danger of losing contact with the masses of the people. Every
problem encountered must be examined from this viewpoint first of all
and the decision to be made must always be in harmony with this
principle.

The movement must avoid everything which might lessen or weaken its
power of influencing the masses; not from demagogical motives but
because of the simple fact that no great idea, no matter how sublime and
exalted it may appear, can be realized in practice without the effective
power which resides in the popular masses. Stern reality alone must mark
the way to the goal. To be unwilling to walk the road of hardship means,
only too often in this world, the total renunciation of our aims and
purposes, whether that renunciation be consciously willed or not.

The moment the Pan-German leaders, in virtue of their acceptance of the
parliamentary principle, moved the centre of their activities away from
the people and into Parliament, in that moment they sacrificed the
future for the sake of a cheap momentary success. They chose the easier
way in the struggle and in doing so rendered themselves unworthy of the
final victory.

While in Vienna I used to ponder seriously over these two questions, and
I saw that the main reason for the collapse of the Pan-German Movement
lay in the fact that these very questions were not rightly appreciated.
To my mind at that time the Movement seemed chosen to take in its hands
the leadership of the German element in Austria.

These first two blunders which led to the downfall of the Pan-German
Movement were very closely connected with one another. Faulty
recognition of the inner driving forces that urge great movements
forward led to an inadequate appreciation of the part which the broad
masses play in bringing about such changes. The result was that too
little attention was given to the social problem and that the attempts
made by the movement to capture the minds of the lower classes were too
few and too weak. Another result was the acceptance of the parliamentary
policy, which had a similar effect in regard to the importance of the
masses.

If there had been a proper appreciation of the tremendous powers of
endurance always shown by the masses in revolutionary movements a
different attitude towards the social problem would have been taken, and
also a different policy in the matter of propaganda. Then the centre of
gravity of the movement would not have been transferred to the
Parliament but would have remained in the workshops and in the streets.

There was a third mistake, which also had its roots in the failure to
understand the worth of the masses. The masses are first set in motion,
along a definite direction, by men of superior talents; but then these
masses once in motion are like a flywheel inasmuch as they sustain the
momentum and steady balance of the offensive.

The policy of the Pan-German leaders in deciding to carry through a
difficult fight against the Catholic Church can be explained only by
attributing it to an inadequate understanding of the spiritual character
of the people.

The reasons why the new Party engaged in a violent campaign against Rome
were as follows:

As soon as the House of Habsburg had definitely decided to transform
Austria into a Slav State all sorts of means were adopted which seemed
in any way serviceable for that purpose. The Habsburg rulers had no
scruples of conscience about exploiting even religious institutions in
the service of this new 'State Idea'. One of the many methods thus
employed was the use of Czech parishes and their clergy as instruments
for spreading Slav hegemony throughout Austria. This proceeding was
carried out as follows:

Parish priests of Czech nationality were appointed in purely German
districts. Gradually but steadily pushing forward the interests of the
Czech people before those of the Church, the parishes and their priests
became generative cells in the process of de-Germanization.

Unfortunately the German-Austrian clergy completely failed to counter
this procedure. Not only were they incapable of taking a similar
initiative on the German side, but they showed themselves unable to meet
the Czech offensive with adequate resistance. The German element was
accordingly pushed backwards, slowly but steadily, through the
perversion of religious belief for political ends on the one side, and
the Jack of proper resistance on the other side. Such were the tactics
used in dealing with the smaller problems; but those used in dealing
with the larger problems were not very different.

The anti-German aims pursued by the Habsburgs, especially through the
instrumentality of the higher clergy, did not meet with any vigorous
resistance, while the clerical representatives of the German interests
withdrew completely to the rear. The general impression created could
not be other than that the Catholic clergy as such were grossly
neglecting the rights of the German population.

Therefore it looked as if the Catholic Church was not in sympathy with
the German people but that it unjustly supported their adversaries. The
root of the whole evil, especially according to Scho"nerer's opinion, lay
in the fact that the leadership of the Catholic Church was not in
Germany, and that this fact alone was sufficient reason for the hostile
attitude of the Church towards the demands of our people.

The so-called cultural problem receded almost completely into the
background, as was generally the case everywhere throughout Austria at
that time. In assuming a hostile attitude towards the Catholic Church,
the Pan-German leaders were influenced not so much by the Church's
position in questions of science but principally by the fact that the
Church did not defend German rights, as it should have done, but always
supported those who encroached on these rights, especially then Slavs.

George Scho"nerer was not a man who did things by halves. He went into
battle against the Church because he was convinced that this was the
only way in which the German people could be saved. The LOS-VON-ROM
(Away from Rome) Movement seemed the most formidable, but at the same
time most difficult, method of attacking and destroying the adversary's
citadel. Scho"nerer believed that if this movement could be carried
through successfully the unfortunate division between the two great
religious denominations in Germany would be wiped out and that the inner
forces of the German Empire and Nation would be enormously enhanced by
such a victory.

But the premises as well as the conclusions in this case were both
erroneous.

It was undoubtedly true that the national powers of resistance, in
everything concerning Germanism as such, were much weaker among the
German Catholic clergy than among their non-German confre`res, especially
the Czechs. And only an ignorant person could be unaware of the fact
that it scarcely ever entered the mind of the German clergy to take the
offensive on behalf of German interests.

But at the same time everybody who is not blind to facts must admit that
all this should be attributed to a characteristic under which we Germans
have all been doomed to suffer. This characteristic shows itself in our
objective way of regarding our own nationality, as if it were something
that lay outside of us.

While the Czech priest adopted a subjective attitude towards his own
people and only an objective attitude towards the Church, the German
parish priest showed a subjective devotion to his Church and remained
objective in regard to his nation. It is a phenomenon which,
unfortunately for us, can be observed occurring in exactly the same way
in thousands of other cases.

It is by no means a peculiar inheritance from Catholicism; but it is
something in us which does not take long to gnaw the vitals of almost
every institution, especially institutions of State and those which have
ideal aims. Take, for example, the attitude of our State officials in
regard to the efforts made for bringing about a national resurgence and
compare that attitude with the stand which the public officials of any
other nation would have taken in such a case. Or is it to be believed
that the military officers of any other country in the world would
refuse to come forward on behalf of the national aspirations, but would
rather hide behind the phrase 'Authority of the State', as has been the
case in our country during the last five years and has even been deemed
a meritorious attitude? Or let us take another example. In regard to the
Jewish problem, do not the two Christian denominations take up a
standpoint to-day which does not respond to the national exigencies or
even the interests of religion? Consider the attitude of a Jewish Rabbi
towards any question, even one of quite insignificant importance,
concerning the Jews as a race, and compare his attitude with that of the
majority of our clergy, whether Catholic or Protestant.

We observe the same phenomenon wherever it is a matter of standing up
for some abstract idea.

'Authority of the State', 'Democracy', 'Pacifism', 'International
Solidarity', etc., all such notions become rigid, dogmatic concepts with
us; and the more vital the general necessities of the nation, the more
will they be judged exclusively in the light of those concepts.

This unfortunate habit of looking at all national demands from the
viewpoint of a pre-conceived notion makes it impossible for us to see
the subjective side of a thing which objectively contradicts one's own
doctrine. It finally leads to a complete reversion in the relation of
means to an end. Any attempt at a national revival will be opposed if
the preliminary condition of such a revival be that a bad and pernicious
regime must first of all be overthrown; because such an action will be
considered as a violation of the 'Authority of the State'. In the eyes
of those who take that standpoint, the 'Authority of the State' is not a
means which is there to serve an end but rather, to the mind of the
dogmatic believer in objectivity, it is an end in itself; and he looks
upon that as sufficient apology for his own miserable existence. Such
people would raise an outcry, if, for instance, anyone should attempt to
set up a dictatorship, even though the man responsible for it were
Frederick the Great and even though the politicians for the time being,
who constituted the parliamentary majority, were small and incompetent
men or maybe even on a lower grade of inferiority; because to such
sticklers for abstract principles the law of democracy is more sacred
than the welfare of the nation. In accordance with his principles, one
of these gentry will defend the worst kind of tyranny, though it may be
leading a people to ruin, because it is the fleeting embodiment of the
'Authority of the State', and another will reject even a highly
beneficent government if it should happen not to be in accord with his
notion of 'democracy'.

In the same way our German pacifist will remain silent while the nation
is groaning under an oppression which is being exercised by a sanguinary
military power, when this state of affairs gives rise to active
resistance; because such resistance means the employment of physical
force, which is against the spirit of the pacifist associations. The
German International Socialist may be rooked and plundered by his
comrades in all the other countries of the world in the name of
'solidarity', but he responds with fraternal kindness and never thinks
of trying to get his own back, or even of defending himself. And why?
Because he is a--German.

It may be unpleasant to dwell on such truths, but if something is to be
changed we must start by diagnosing the disease.

The phenomenon which I have just described also accounts for the feeble
manner in which German interests are promoted and defended by a section
of the clergy.

Such conduct is not the manifestation of a malicious intent, nor is it
the outcome of orders given from 'above', as we say; but such a lack of
national grit and determination is due to defects in our educational
system. For, instead of inculcating in the youth a lively sense of their
German nationality, the aim of the educational system is to make the
youth prostrate themselves in homage to the idea, as if the idea were an
idol.

The education which makes them the devotees of such abstract notions as
'Democracy', 'International Socialism', 'Pacifism', etc., is so
hard-and-fast and exclusive and, operating as it does from within
outwards, is so purely subjective that in forming their general picture
of outside life as a whole they are fundamentally influenced by these
A PRIORI notions. But, on the other hand, the attitude towards their own
German nationality has been very objective from youth upwards. The
Pacifist--in so far as he is a German--who surrenders himself
subjectively, body and soul, to the dictates of his dogmatic principles,
will always first consider the objective right or wrong of a situation
when danger threatens his own people, even though that danger be grave
and unjustly wrought from outside. But he will never take his stand in
the ranks of his own people and fight for and with them from the sheer
instinct of self-preservation.

Another example may further illustrate how far this applies to the
different religious denominations. In so far as its origin and tradition
are based on German ideals, Protestantism of itself defends those ideals
better. But it fails the moment it is called upon to defend national
interests which do not belong to the sphere of its ideals and
traditional development, or which, for some reason or other, may be
rejected by that sphere.

Therefore Protestantism will always take its part in promoting German
ideals as far as concerns moral integrity or national education, when
the German spiritual being or language or spiritual freedom are to be
defended: because these represent the principles on which Protestantism
itself is grounded. But this same Protestantism violently opposes every
attempt to rescue the nation from the clutches of its mortal enemy;
because the Protestant attitude towards the Jews is more or less rigidly
and dogmatically fixed. And yet this is the first problem which has to
be solved, unless all attempts to bring about a German resurgence or to
raise the level of the nation's standing are doomed to turn out
nonsensical and impossible.

During my sojourn in Vienna I had ample leisure and opportunity to study
this problem without allowing any prejudices to intervene; and in my
daily intercourse with people I was able to establish the correctness of
the opinion I formed by the test of thousands of instances.

In this focus where the greatest varieties of nationality had converged
it was quite clear and open to everybody to see that the German pacifist
was always and exclusively the one who tried to consider the interests
of his own nation objectively; but you could never find a Jew who took a
similar attitude towards his own race. Furthermore, I found that only
the German Socialist is 'international' in the sense that he feels
himself obliged not to demand justice for his own people in any other
manner than by whining and wailing to his international comrades. Nobody
could ever reproach Czechs or Poles or other nations with such conduct.
In short, even at that time, already I recognized that this evil is only
partly a result of the doctrines taught by Socialism, Pacifism, etc.,
but mainly the result of our totally inadequate system of education, the
defects of which are responsible for the lack of devotion to our own
national ideals.

Therefore the first theoretical argument advanced by the Pan-German
leaders as the basis of their offensive against Catholicism was quite
entenable.

The only way to remedy the evil I have been speaking of is to train the
Germans from youth upwards to an absolute recognition of the rights of
their own people, instead of poisoning their minds, while they are still
only children, with the virus of this curbed 'objectivity', even in
matters concerning the very maintenance of our own existence. The result
of this would be that the Catholic in Germany, just as in Ireland,
Poland or France, will be a German first and foremost. But all this
presupposes a radical change in the national government.

The strongest proof in support of my contention is furnished by what
took place at that historical juncture when our people were called for
the last time before the tribunal of History to defend their own
existence, in a life-or-death struggle.

As long as there was no lack of leadership in the higher circles, the
people fulfilled their duty and obligations to an overwhelming extent.
Whether Protestant pastor or Catholic priest, each did his very utmost
in helping our powers of resistance to hold out, not only in the
trenches but also, and even more so, at home. During those years, and
especially during the first outburst of enthusiasm, in both religious
camps there was one undivided and sacred German Empire for whose
preservation and future existence they all prayed to Heaven.

The Pan-German Movement in Austria ought to have asked itself this one
question: Is the maintenance of the German element in Austria possible
or not, as long as that element remains within the fold of the Catholic
Faith? If that question should have been answered in the affirmative,
then the political Party should not have meddled in religious and
denominational questions. But if the question had to be answered in the
negative, then a religious reformation should have been started and not
a political party movement.

Anyone who believes that a religious reformation can be achieved through
the agency of a political organization shows that he has no idea of the
development of religious conceptions and doctrines of faith and how
these are given practical effect by the Church.

No man can serve two masters. And I hold that the foundation or
overthrow of a religion has far greater consequences than the foundation
or overthrow of a State, to say nothing of a Party.

It is no argument to the contrary to say that the attacks were only
defensive measures against attacks from the other side.

Undoubtedly there have always been unscrupulous rogues who did not
hesitate to degrade religion to the base uses of politics. Nearly always
such a people had nothing else in their minds except to make a business
of religions and politics. But on the other hand it would be wrong to
hold religion itself, or a religious denomination, responsible for a
number of rascals who exploit the Church for their own base interests
just as they would exploit anything else in which they had a part.

Nothing could be more to the taste of one of these parliamentary
loungers and tricksters than to be able to find a scapegoat for his
political sharp-practice--after the event, of course. The moment
religion or a religious denomination is attacked and made responsible
for his personal misdeeds this shrewd fellow will raise a row at once
and call the world to witness how justified he was in acting as he did,
proclaiming that he and his eloquence alone have saved religion and the
Church. The public, which is mostly stupid and has a very short memory,
is not capable of recognizing the real instigator of the quarrel in the
midst of the turmoil that has been raised. Frequently it does not
remember the beginning of the fight and so the rogue gets by with his
stunt.

A cunning fellow of that sort is quite well aware that his misdeeds have
nothing to do with religion. And so he will laugh up his sleeve all the
more heartily when his honest but artless adversary loses the game and,
one day losing all faith in humanity, retires from the activities of
public life.

But from another viewpoint also it would be wrong to make religion, or
the Church as such, responsible for the misdeeds of individuals. If one
compares the magnitude of the organization, as it stands visible to
every eye, with the average weakness of human nature we shall have to
admit that the proportion of good to bad is more favourable here than
anywhere else. Among the priests there may, of course, be some who use
their sacred calling to further their political ambitions. There are
clergy who unfortunately forget that in the political me^le'e they ought
to be the paladins of the more sublime truths and not the abettors of
falsehood and slander. But for each one of these unworthy specimens we
can find a thousand or more who fulfil their mission nobly as the
trustworthy guardians of souls and who tower above the level of our
corrupt epoch, as little islands above the seaswamp.

I cannot condemn the Church as such, and I should feel quite as little
justified in doing so if some depraved person in the robe of a priest
commits some offence against the moral law. Nor should I for a moment
think of blaming the Church if one of its innumerable members betrays
and besmirches his compatriots, especially not in epochs when such
conduct is quite common. We must not forget, particularly in our day,
that for one such Ephialtes (Note 7) there are a thousand whose hearts
bleed in sympathy with their people during these years of misfortune and
who, together with the best of our nation, yearn for the hour when fortune
will smile on us again.

[Note 7. Herodotus (Book VII, 213-218) tells the story of how a Greek
traitor, Ephialtes, helped the Persian invaders at the Battle of
Thermopylae (480 B.C.) When the Persian King, Xerxes, had begun to
despair of being able tobreak through the Greek defence, Ephialtes came
to him and, on being promiseda definite payment, told the King of a
pathway over the shoulder of the mountainto the Greek end of the Pass.
The bargain being clinched, Ephialtes led adetachment of the Persian
troops under General Hydarnes over the mountainpathway. Thus taken in
the rear, the Greek defenders, under Leonidas, King of Sparta, had to
fight in two opposite directions within the narrow pass. Terrible
slaughter ensued and Leonidas fell in the thick of the fighting.

The bravery of Leonidas and the treason of Ephialtes impressed Hitler,
asit does almost every schoolboy. The incident is referred to again in
MEIN KAMPF (Chap. VIII, Vol. I), where Hitler compares the German troops
thatfell in France and Flanders to the Greeks at Thermopylae, the
treachery of Ephialtes being suggested as the prototype of the defeatist
policy of the German politicians towards the end of the Great War.]

If it be objected that here we are concerned not with the petty problems
of everyday life but principally with fundamental truths and questions
of dogma, the only way of answering that objection is to ask a question:

Do you feel that Providence has called you to proclaim the Truth to the
world? If so, then go and do it. But you ought to have the courage to do
it directly and not use some political party as your mouthpiece; for in
this way you shirk your vocation. In the place of something that now
exists and is bad put something else that is better and will last into
the future.

If you lack the requisite courage or if you yourself do not know clearly
what your better substitute ought to be, leave the whole thing alone.
But, whatever happens, do not try to reach the goal by the roundabout
way of a political party if you are not brave enough to fight with your
visor lifted.

Political parties have no right to meddle in religious questions except
when these relate to something that is alien to the national well-being
and thus calculated to undermine racial customs and morals.

If some ecclesiastical dignitaries should misuse religious ceremonies or
religious teaching to injure their own nation their opponents ought
never to take the same road and fight them with the same weapons.

To a political leader the religious teachings and practices of his
people should be sacred and inviolable. Otherwise he should not be a
statesman but a reformer, if he has the necessary qualities for such a
mission.

Any other line of conduct will lead to disaster, especially in Germany.

In studying the Pan-German Movement and its conflict with Rome I was
then firmly persuaded, and especially in the course of later years, that
by their failure to understand the importance of the social problem the
Pan-Germanists lost the support of the broad masses, who are the
indispensable combatants in such a movement. By entering Parliament the
Pan-German leaders deprived themselves of the great driving force which
resides in the masses and at the same time they laid on their own
shoulders all the defects of the parliamentary institution. Their
struggle against the Church made their position impossible in numerous
circles of the lower and middle class, while at the same time it robbed
them of innumerable high-class elements--some of the best indeed that
the nation possessed. The practical outcome of the Austrian Kulturkampf
was negative.

Although they succeeded in winning 100,000 members away from the Church,
that did not do much harm to the latter. The Church did not really need
to shed any tears over these lost sheep, for it lost only those who had
for a long time ceased to belong to it in their inner hearts. The
difference between this new reformation and the great Reformation was
that in the historic epoch of the great Reformation some of the best
members left the Church because of religious convictions, whereas in
this new reformation only those left who had been indifferent before and
who were now influenced by political considerations. From the political
point of view alone the result was as ridiculous as it was deplorable.

Once again a political movement which had promised so much for the
German nation collapsed, because it was not conducted in a spirit of
unflinching adherence to naked reality, but lost itself in fields where
it was bound to get broken up.

The Pan-German Movement would never have made this mistake if it had
properly understood the PSYCHE of the broad masses. If the leaders had
known that, for psychological reasons alone, it is not expedient to
place two or more sets of adversaries before the masses--since that
leads to a complete splitting up of their fighting strength--they would
have concentrated the full and undivided force of their attack against a
single adversary. Nothing in the policy of a political party is so
fraught with danger as to allow its decisions to be directed by people
who want to have their fingers in every pie though they do not know how
to cook the simplest dish.

But even though there is much that can really be said against the
various religious denominations, political leaders must not forget that
the experience of history teaches us that no purely political party in
similar circumstances ever succeeded in bringing about a religious
reformation. One does not study history for the purpose of forgetting or
mistrusting its lessons afterwards, when the time comes to apply these
lessons in practice. It would be a mistake to believe that in this
particular case things were different, so that the eternal truths of
history were no longer applicable. One learns history in order to be
able to apply its lessons to the present time and whoever fails to do
this cannot pretend to be a political leader. In reality he is quite a
superficial person or, as is mostly the case, a conceited simpleton
whose good intentions cannot make up for his incompetence in practical
affairs.

The art of leadership, as displayed by really great popular leaders in
all ages, consists in consolidating the attention of the people against
a single adversary and taking care that nothing will split up that
attention into sections. The more the militant energies of the people
are directed towards one objective the more will new recruits join the
movement, attracted by the magnetism of its unified action, and thus the
striking power will be all the more enhanced. The leader of genius must
have the ability to make different opponents appear as if they belonged
to the one category; for weak and wavering natures among a leader's
following may easily begin to be dubious about the justice of their own
cause if they have to face different enemies.

As soon as the vacillating masses find themselves facing an opposition
that is made up of different groups of enemies their sense of
objectivity will be aroused and they will ask how is it that all the
others can be in the wrong and they themselves, and their movement,
alone in the right.

Such a feeling would be the first step towards a paralysis of their
fighting vigour. Where there are various enemies who are split up into
divergent groups it will be necessary to block them all together as
forming one solid front, so that the mass of followers in a popular
movement may see only one common enemy against whom they have to fight.
Such uniformity intensifies their belief in the justice of their own
cause and strengthens their feeling of hostility towards the opponent.

The Pan-German Movement was unsuccessful because the leaders did not
grasp the significance of that truth. They saw the goal clearly and
their intentions were right; but they took the wrong road. Their action
may be compared to that of an Alpine climber who never loses sight of
the peak he wants to reach, who has set out with the greatest
determination and energy, but pays no attention to the road beneath his
feet. With his eye always fixed firmly on the goal he does not think
over or notice the nature of the ascent and finally he fails.

The manner in which the great rival of the Pan-German Party set out to
attain its goal was quite different. The way it took was well and
shrewdly chosen; but it did not have a clear vision of the goal. In
almost all the questions where the Pan-German Movement failed, the
policy of the Christian-Socialist Party was correct and systematic.

They assessed the importance of the masses correctly, and thus they
gained the support of large numbers of the popular masses by emphasizing
the social character of the Movement from the very start. By directing
their appeal especially to the lower middle class and the artisans, they
gained adherents who were faithful, persevering and self-sacrificing.
The Christian-Socialist leaders took care to avoid all controversy with
the institutions of religion and thus they secured the support of that
mighty organization, the Catholic Church. Those leaders recognized the
value of propaganda on a large scale and they were veritable virtuosos
in working up the spiritual instincts of the broad masses of their
adherents.

The failure of this Party to carry into effect the dream of saving
Austria from dissolution must be attributed to two main defects in the
means they employed and also the lack of a clear perception of the ends
they wished to reach.

The anti-Semitism of the Christian-Socialists was based on religious
instead of racial principles. The reason for this mistake gave rise to
the second error also.

The founders of the Christian-Socialist Party were of the opinion that
they could not base their position on the racial principle if they
wished to save Austria, because they felt that a general disintegration
of the State might quickly result from the adoption of such a policy. In
the opinion of the Party chiefs the situation in Vienna demanded that
all factors which tended to estrange the nationalities from one another
should be carefully avoided and that all factors making for unity should
be encouraged.

At that time Vienna was so honeycombed with foreign elements, especially
the Czechs, that the greatest amount of tolerance was necessary if these
elements were to be enlisted in the ranks of any party that was not
anti-German on principle. If Austria was to be saved those elements were
indispensable. And so attempts were made to win the support of the small
traders, a great number of whom were Czechs, by combating the liberalism
of the Manchester School; and they believed that by adopting this
attitude they had found a slogan against Jewry which, because of its
religious implications, would unite all the different nationalities
which made up the population of the old Austria.

It was obvious, however, that this kind of anti-Semitism did not upset
the Jews very much, simply because it had a purely religious foundation.
If the worst came to the worst a few drops of baptismal water would
settle the matter, hereupon the Jew could still carry on his business
safely and at the same time retain his Jewish nationality.

On such superficial grounds it was impossible to deal with the whole
problem in an earnest and rational way. The consequence was that many
people could not understand this kind of anti-Semitism and therefore
refused to take part in it.

The attractive force of the idea was thus restricted exclusively to
narrow-minded circles, because the leaders failed to go beyond the mere
emotional appeal and did not ground their position on a truly rational
basis. The intellectuals were opposed to such a policy on principle. It
looked more and more as if the whole movement was a new attempt to
proselytize the Jews, or, on the other hand, as if it were merely
organized from the wish to compete with other contemporary movements.
Thus the struggle lost all traces of having been organized for a
spiritual and sublime mission. Indeed, it seemed to some people--and
these were by no means worthless elements--to be immoral and
reprehensible. The movement failed to awaken a belief that here there
was a problem of vital importance for the whole of humanity and on the
solution of which the destiny of the whole Gentile world depended.

Through this shilly-shally way of dealing with the problem the
anti-Semitism of the Christian-Socialists turned out to be quite
ineffective.

It was anti-Semitic only in outward appearance. And this was worse than
if it had made no pretences at all to anti-Semitism; for the pretence
gave rise to a false sense of security among people who believed that
the enemy had been taken by the ears; but, as a matter of fact, the
people themselves were being led by the nose.

The Jew readily adjusted himself to this form of anti-Semitism and found
its continuance more profitable to him than its abolition would be.

This whole movement led to great sacrifices being made for the sake of
that State which was composed of many heterogeneous nationalities; but
much greater sacrifices had to be made by the trustees of the German
element.

One did not dare to be 'nationalist', even in Vienna, lest the ground
should fall away from under one's feet. It was hoped that the Habsburg
State might be saved by a silent evasion of the nationalist question;
but this policy led that State to ruin. The same policy also led to the
collapse of Christian Socialism, for thus the Movement was deprived of
the only source of energy from which a political party can draw the
necessary driving force.

During those years I carefully followed the two movements and observed
how they developed, one because my heart was with it and the other
because of my admiration for that remarkable man who then appeared to me
as a bitter symbol of the whole German population in Austria.

When the imposing funeral CORTE`GE of the dead Burgomaster wound its way
from the City Hall towards the Ring Strasse I stood among the hundreds
of thousands who watched the solemn procession pass by. As I stood there
I felt deeply moved, and my instinct clearly told me that the work of
this man was all in vain, because a sinister Fate was inexorably leading
this State to its downfall. If Dr. Karl Lueger had lived in Germany he
would have been ranked among the great leaders of our people. It was a
misfortune for his work and for himseif that he had to live in this
impossible State.

When he died the fire had already been enkindled in the Balkans and was
spreading month by month. Fate had been merciful in sparing him the
sight of what, even to the last, he had hoped to prevent.

I endeavoured to analyse the cause which rendered one of those movements
futile and wrecked the progress of the other. The result of this
investigation was the profound conviction that, apart from the inherent
impossibility of consolidating the position of the State in the old
Austria, the two parties made the following fatal mistake:

The Pan-German Party was perfectly right in its fundamental ideas
regarding the aim of the Movement, which was to bring about a German
restoration, but it was unfortunate in its choice of means. It was
nationalist, but unfortunately it paid too little heed to the social
problem, and thus it failed to gain the support of the masses. Its
anti-Jewish policy, however, was grounded on a correct perception of the
significance of the racial problem and not on religious principles. But
it was mistaken in its assessment of facts and adopted the wrong tactics
when it made war against one of the religious denominations.

The Christian-Socialist Movement had only a vague concept of a German
revival as part of its object, but it was intelligent and fortunate in
the choice of means to carry out its policy as a Party. The
Christian-Socialists grasped the significance of the social question;
but they adopted the wrong principles in their struggle against Jewry,
and they utterly failed to appreciate the value of the national idea as
a source of political energy.

If the Christian-Socialist Party, together with its shrewd judgment in
regard to the worth of the popular masses, had only judged rightly also
on the importance of the racial problem--which was properly grasped by
the Pan-German Movement--and if this party had been really nationalist;
or if the Pan-German leaders, on the other hand, in addition to their
correct judgment of the Jewish problem and of the national idea, had
adopted the practical wisdom of the Christian-Socialist Party, and
particularly their attitude towards Socialism--then a movement would
have developed which, in my opinion, might at that time have
successfully altered the course of German destiny.

If things did not turn out thus, the fault lay for the most part in the
inherent nature of the Austrian State.

I did not find my own convictions upheld by any party then in existence,
and so I could not bring myself to enlist as a member in any of the
existing organizations or even lend a hand in their struggle. Even at
that time all those organizations seemed to me to be already jaded in
their energies and were therefore incapable of bringing about a national
revival of the German people in a really profound way, not merely
outwardly.

My inner aversion to the Habsburg State was increasing daily.

The more I paid special attention to questions of foreign policy, the
more the conviction grew upon me that this phantom State would surely
bring misfortune on the Germans. I realized more and more that the
destiny of the German nation could not be decisively influenced from
here but only in the German Empire itself. And this was true not only in
regard to general political questions but also--and in no less a
degree--in regard to the whole sphere of cultural life.

Here, also, in all matters affecting the national culture and art, the
Austrian State showed all the signs of senile decrepitude, or at least
it was ceasing to be of any consequence to the German nation, as far as
these matters were concerned. This was especially true of its
architecture. Modern architecture could not produce any great results in
Austria because, since the building of the Ring Strasse--at least in
Vienna--architectural activities had become insignificant when compared
with the progressive plans which were being thought out in Germany.

And so I came more and more to lead what may be called a twofold
existence. Reason and reality forced me to continue my harsh
apprenticeship in Austria, though I must now say that this
apprenticeship turned out fortunate in the end. But my heart was
elsewhere.

A feeling of discontent grew upon me and made me depressed the more I
came to realize the inside hollowness of this State and the
impossibility of saving it from collapse. At the same time I felt
perfectly certain that it would bring all kinds of misfortune to the
German people.

I was convinced that the Habsburg State would balk and hinder every
German who might show signs of real greatness, while at the same time it
would aid and abet every non-German activity.

This conglomerate spectacle of heterogeneous races which the capital of
the Dual Monarchy presented, this motley of Czechs, Poles, Hungarians,
Ruthenians, Serbs and Croats, etc., and always that bacillus which is
the solvent of human society, the Jew, here and there and
everywhere--the whole spectacle was repugnant to me. The gigantic city
seemed to be the incarnation of mongrel depravity.

The German language, which I had spoken from the time of my boyhood, was
the vernacular idiom of Lower Bavaria. I never forgot that particular
style of speech, and I could never learn the Viennese dialect. The
longer I lived in that city the stronger became my hatred for the
promiscuous swarm of foreign peoples which had begun to batten on that
old nursery ground of German culture. The idea that this State could
maintain its further existence for any considerable time was quite
absurd.

Austria was then like a piece of ancient mosaic in which the cohesive
cement had dried up and become old and friable. As long as such a work
of art remains untouched it may hold together and continue to exist; but
the moment some blow is struck on it then it breaks up into thousands of
fragments. Therefore it was now only a question of when the blow would
come.

Because my heart was always with the German Empire and not with the
Austrian Monarchy, the hour of Austria's dissolution as a State appeared
to me only as the first step towards the emancipation of the German
nation.

All these considerations intensified my yearning to depart for that
country for which my heart had been secretly longing since the days of
my youth.

I hoped that one day I might be able to make my mark as an architect and
that I could devote my talents to the service of my country on a large
or small scale, according to the will of Fate.

A final reason was that I longed to be among those who lived and worked
in that land from which the movement should be launched, the object of
which would be the fulfilment of what my heart had always longed for,
namely, the union of the country in which I was born with our common
fatherland, the German Empire.

There are many who may not understand how such a yearning can be so
strong; but I appeal especially to two groups of people. The first
includes all those who are still denied the happiness I have spoken of,
and the second embraces those who once enjoyed that happiness but had it
torn from them by a harsh fate. I turn to all those who have been torn
from their motherland and who have to struggle for the preservation of
their most sacred patrimony, their native language, persecuted and
harried because of their loyalty and love for the homeland, yearning
sadly for the hour when they will be allowed to return to the bosom of
their father's household. To these I address my words, and I know that
they will understand.

Only he who has experienced in his own inner life what it means to be
German and yet to be denied the right of belonging to his fatherland can
appreciate the profound nostalgia which that enforced exile causes. It
is a perpetual heartache, and there is no place for joy and contentment
until the doors of paternal home are thrown open and all those through
whose veins kindred blood is flowing will find peace and rest in their
common REICH.

Vienna was a hard school for me; but it taught me the most profound
lessons of my life. I was scarcely more than a boy when I came to live
there, and when I left it I had grown to be a man of a grave and pensive
nature. In Vienna I acquired the foundations of a WELTANSCHAUUNG in
general and developed a faculty for analysing political questions in
particular. That WELTANSCHAUUNG and the political ideas then formed
have never been abandoned, though they were expanded later on in some
directions. It is only now that I can fully appreciate how valuable
those years of apprenticeship were for me.

That is why I have given a detailed account of this period. There, in
Vienna, stark reality taught me the truths that now form the fundamental
principles of the Party which within the course of five years has grown
from modest beginnings to a great mass movement. I do not know what my
attitude towards Jewry, Social-Democracy, or rather Marxism in general,
to the social problem, etc., would be to-day if I had not acquired a
stock of personal beliefs at such an early age, by dint of hard study
and under the duress of Fate.

For, although the misfortunes of the Fatherland may have stimulated
thousands and thousands to ponder over the inner causes of the collapse,
that could not lead to such a thorough knowledge and deep insight as a
man may develop who has fought a hard struggle for many years so that he
might be master of his own fate.




CHAPTER IV



MUNICH


At last I came to Munich, in the spring of 1912.

The city itself was as familiar to me as if I had lived for years within
its walls.

This was because my studies in architecture had been constantly turning
my attention to the metropolis of German art. One must know Munich if
one would know Germany, and it is impossible to acquire a knowledge of
German art without seeing Munich.

All things considered, this pre-war sojourn was by far the happiest and
most contented time of my life. My earnings were very slender; but after
all I did not live for the sake of painting. I painted in order to get
the bare necessities of existence while I continued my studies. I was
firmly convinced that I should finally succeed in reaching the goal I
had marked out for myself. And this conviction alone was strong enough
to enable me to bear the petty hardships of everyday life without
worrying very much about them.

Moreover, almost from the very first moment of my sojourn there I came
to love that city more than any other place known to me. A German city!
I said to myself. How different to Vienna. It was with a feeling of
disgust that my imagination reverted to that Babylon of races. Another
pleasant feature here was the way the people spoke German, which was
much nearer my own way of speaking than the Viennese idiom. The Munich
idiom recalled the days of my youth, especially when I spoke with those
who had come to Munich from Lower Bavaria. There were a thousand or more
things which I inwardly loved or which I came to love during the course
of my stay. But what attracted me most was the marvellous wedlock of
native folk-energy with the fine artistic spirit of the city, that
unique harmony from the Hofbra"uhaus to the Odeon, from the October
Festival to the PINAKOTHEK, etc. The reason why my heart's strings are
entwined around this city as around no other spot in this world is
probably because Munich is and will remain inseparably connected with
the development of my own career; and the fact that from the beginning
of my visit I felt inwardly happy and contented is to be attributed to
the charm of the marvellous Wittelsbach Capital, which has attracted
probably everybody who is blessed with a feeling for beauty instead of
commercial instincts.

Apart from my professional work, I was most interested in the study of
current political events, particularly those which were connected with
foreign relations. I approached these by way of the German policy of
alliances which, ever since my Austrian days, I had considered to be an
utterly mistaken one. But in Vienna I had not yet seen quite clearly how
far the German Empire had gone in the process of' self-delusion. In
Vienna I was inclined to assume, or probably I persuaded myself to do so
in order to excuse the German mistake, that possibly the authorities in
Berlin knew how weak and unreliable their ally would prove to be when
brought face to face with realities, but that, for more or less
mysterious reasons, they refrained from allowing their opinions on this
point to be known in public. Their idea was that they should support the
policy of alliances which Bismarck had initiated and the sudden
discontinuance of which might be undesirable, if for no other reason
than that it might arouse those foreign countries which were lying in
wait for their chance or might alarm the Philistines at home.

But my contact with the people soon taught me, to my horror, that my
assumptions were wrong. I was amazed to find everywhere, even in circles
otherwise well informed, that nobody had the slightest intimation of the
real character of the Habsburg Monarchy. Among the common people in
particular there was a prevalent illusion that the Austrian ally was a
Power which would have to be seriously reckoned with and would rally its
man-power in the hour of need. The mass of the people continued to look
upon the Dual Monarchy as a 'German State' and believed that it could be
relied upon. They assumed that its strength could be measured by the
millions of its subjects, as was the case in Germany. First of all, they
did not realize that Austria had ceased to be a German State and,
secondly, that the conditions prevailing within the Austrian Empire were
steadily pushing it headlong to the brink of disaster.

At that time I knew the condition of affairs in the Austrian State
better than the professional diplomats. Blindfolded, as nearly always,
these diplomats stumbled along on their way to disaster. The opinions
prevailing among the bulk of the people reflected only what had been
drummed into them from official quarters above. And these higher
authorities grovelled before the 'Ally', as the people of old bowed down
before the Golden Calf. They probably thought that by being polite and
amiable they might balance the lack of honesty on the other side. Thus
they took every declaration at its full face value.

Even while in Vienna I used to be annoyed again and again by the
discrepancy between the speeches of the official statesmen and the
contents of the Viennese Press. And yet Vienna was still a German city,
at least as far as appearances went. But one encountered an utterly
different state of things on leaving Vienna, or rather German-Austria,
and coming into the Slav provinces. It needed only a glance at the
Prague newspapers in order to see how the whole exalted hocus-pocus of
the Triple Alliance was judged from there. In Prague there was nothing
but gibes and sneers for that masterpiece of statesmanship. Even in the
piping times of peace, when the two emperors kissed each other on the
brow in token of friendship, those papers did not cloak their belief
that the alliance would be liquidated the moment a first attempt was
made to bring it down from the shimmering glory of a Nibelungen ideal to
the plane of practical affairs.

Great indignation was aroused a few years later, when the alliances were
put to the first practical test. Italy not only withdrew from the Triple
Alliance, leaving the other two members to march by themselves. but she
even joined their enemies. That anybody should believe even for a moment
in the possibility of such a miracle as that of Italy fighting on the
same side as Austria would be simply incredible to anyone who did not
suffer from the blindness of official diplomacy. And that was just how
people felt in Austria also.

In Austria only the Habsburgs and the German-Austrians supported the
alliance. The Habsburgs did so from shrewd calculation of their own
interests and from necessity. The Germans did it out of good faith and
political ignorance. They acted in good faith inasmuch as they believed
that by establishing the Triple Alliance they were doing a great service
to the German Empire and were thus helping to strengthen it and
consolidate its defence. They showed their political ignorance, however,
in holding such ideas, because, instead of helping the German Empire
they really chained it to a moribund State which might bring its
associate into the grave with itself; and, above all, by championing
this alliance they fell more and more a prey to the Habsburg policy of
de-Germanization. For the alliance gave the Habsburgs good grounds for
believing that the German Empire would not interfere in their domestic
affairs and thus they were in a position to carry into effect, with more
ease and less risk, their domestic policy of gradually eliminating the
German element. Not only could the 'objectiveness' of the German
Government be counted upon, and thus there need be no fear of protest
from that quarter, but one could always remind the German-Austrians of
the alliance and thus silence them in case they should ever object to
the reprehensible means that were being employed to establish a Slav
hegemony in the Dual Monarchy.

What could the German-Austrians do, when the people of the German Empire
itself had openly proclaimed their trust and confidence in the Habsburg
re'gime?

Should they resist, and thus be branded openly before their kinsfolk in
the REICH as traitors to their own national interests? They, who for so
many decades had sacrificed so much for the sake of their German
tradition!

Once the influence of the Germans in Austria had been wiped out, what
then would be the value of the alliance? If the Triple Alliance were to
be advantageous to Germany, was it not a necessary condition that the
predominance of the German element in Austria should be maintained? Or
did anyone really believe that Germany could continue to be the ally of
a Habsburg Empire under the hegemony of the Slavs?

The official attitude of German diplomacy, as well as that of the
general public towards internal problems affecting the Austrian
nationalities was not merely stupid, it was insane. On the alliance, as
on a solid foundation, they grounded the security and future existence
of a nation of seventy millions, while at the same time they allowed
their partner to continue his policy of undermining the sole foundation
of that alliance methodically and resolutely, from year to year. A day
must come when nothing but a formal contract with Viennese diplomats
would be left. The alliance itself, as an effective support, would be
lost to Germany.

As far as concerned Italy, such had been the case from the outset.

If people in Germany had studied history and the psychology of nations a
little more carefully not one of them could have believed for a single
hour that the Quirinal and the Viennese Hofburg could ever stand
shoulder to shoulder on a common battle front. Italy would have exploded
like a volcano if any Italian government had dared to send a single
Italian soldier to fight for the Habsburg State. So fanatically hated
was this State that the Italians could stand in no other relation to it
on a battle front except as enemies. More than once in Vienna I have
witnessed explosions of the contempt and profound hatred which 'allied'
the Italian to the Austrian State. The crimes which the House of
Habsburg committed against Italian freedom and independence during
several centuries were too grave to be forgiven, even with the best of
goodwill. But this goodwill did not exist, either among the rank and
file of the population or in the government. Therefore for Italy there
were only two ways of co-existing with Austria--alliance or war. By
choosing the first it was possible to prepare leisurely for the second.

Especially since relations between Russia and Austria tended more and
more towards the arbitrament of war, the German policy of alliances was
as senseless as it was dangerous. Here was a classical instance which
demonstrated the lack of any broad or logical lines of thought.

But what was the reason for forming the alliance at all? It could not
have been other than the wish to secure the future of the REICH better
than if it were to depend exclusively on its own resources. But the
future of the REICH could not have meant anything else than the problem
of securing the means of existence for the German people.

The only questions therefore were the following: What form shall the
life of the nation assume in the near future--that is to say within such
a period as we can forecast? And by what means can the necessary
foundation and security be guaranteed for this development within the
framework of the general distribution of power among the European
nations? A clear analysis of the principles on which the foreign policy
of German statecraft were to be based should have led to the following
conclusions:

The annual increase of population in Germany amounts to almost 900,000
souls. The difficulties of providing for this army of new citizens must
grow from year to year and must finally lead to a catastrophe, unless
ways and means are found which will forestall the danger of misery and
hunger. There were four ways of providing against this terrible
calamity:

(1) It was possible to adopt the French example and artificially
restrict the number of births, thus avoiding an excess of population.

Under certain circumstances, in periods of distress or under bad
climatic condition, or if the soil yields too poor a return, Nature
herself tends to check the increase of population in some countries and
among some races, but by a method which is quite as ruthless as it is
wise. It does not impede the procreative faculty as such; but it does
impede the further existence of the offspring by submitting it to such
tests and privations that everything which is less strong or less
healthy is forced to retreat into the bosom of tile unknown. Whatever
survives these hardships of existence has been tested and tried a
thousandfold, hardened and renders fit to continue the process of
procreation; so that the same thorough selection will begin all over
again. By thus dealing brutally with the individual and recalling him
the very moment he shows that he is not fitted for the trials of life,
Nature preserves the strength of the race and the species and raises it
to the highest degree of efficiency.

The decrease in numbers therefore implies an increase of strength, as
far as the individual is concerned, and this finally means the
invigoration of the species.

But the case is different when man himself starts the process of
numerical restriction. Man is not carved from Nature's wood. He is made
of 'human' material. He knows more than the ruthless Queen of Wisdom. He
does not impede the preservation of the individual but prevents
procreation itself. To the individual, who always sees only himself and
not the race, this line of action seems more humane and just than the
opposite way. But, unfortunately, the consequences are also the
opposite.

By leaving the process of procreation unchecked and by submitting the
individual to the hardest preparatory tests in life, Nature selects the
best from an abundance of single elements and stamps them as fit to live
and carry on the conservation of the species. But man restricts the
procreative faculty and strives obstinately to keep alive at any cost
whatever has once been born. This correction of the Divine Will seems to
him to be wise and humane, and he rejoices at having trumped Nature's
card in one game at least and thus proved that she is not entirely
reliable. The dear little ape of an all-mighty father is delighted to
see and hear that he has succeeded in effecting a numerical restriction;
but he would be very displeased if told that this, his system, brings
about a degeneration in personal quality.

For as soon as the procreative faculty is thwarted and the number of
births diminished, the natural struggle for existence which allows only
healthy and strong individuals to survive is replaced by a sheer craze
to 'save' feeble and even diseased creatures at any cost. And thus the
seeds are sown for a human progeny which will become more and more
miserable from one generation to another, as long as Nature's will is
scorned.

But if that policy be carried out the final results must be that such a
nation will eventually terminate its own existence on this earth; for
though man may defy the eternal laws of procreation during a certain
period, vengeance will follow sooner or later. A stronger race will oust
that which has grown weak; for the vital urge, in its ultimate form,
will burst asunder all the absurd chains of this so-called humane
consideration for the individual and will replace it with the humanity
of Nature, which wipes out what is weak in order to give place to the
strong.

Any policy which aims at securing the existence of a nation by
restricting the birth-rate robs that nation of its future.

(2) A second solution is that of internal colonization. This is a
proposal which is frequently made in our own time and one hears it
lauded a good deal. It is a suggestion that is well-meant but it is
misunderstood by most people, so that it is the source of more mischief
than can be imagined.

It is certainly true that the productivity of the soil can be increased
within certain limits; but only within defined limits and not
indefinitely. By increasing the productive powers of the soil it will be
possible to balance the effect of a surplus birth-rate in Germany for a
certain period of time, without running any danger of hunger. But we
have to face the fact that the general standard of living is rising more
quickly than even the birth rate. The requirements of food and clothing
are becoming greater from year to year and are out of proportion to
those of our ancestors of, let us say, a hundred years ago. It would,
therefore, be a mistaken view that every increase in the productive
powers of the soil will supply the requisite conditions for an increase
in the population. No. That is true up to a certain point only, for at
least a portion of the increased produce of the soil will be consumed by
the margin of increased demands caused by the steady rise in the
standard of living. But even if these demands were to be curtailed to
the narrowest limits possible and if at the same time we were to use all
our available energies in the intenser cultivation, we should here reach
a definite limit which is conditioned by the inherent nature of the soil
itself. No matter how industriously we may labour we cannot increase
agricultural production beyond this limit. Therefore, though we may
postpone the evil hour of distress for a certain time, it will arrive at
last. The first phenomenon will be the recurrence of famine periods from
time to time, after bad harvests, etc. The intervals between these
famines will become shorter and shorter the more the population
increases; and, finally, the famine times will disappear only in those
rare years of plenty when the granaries are full. And a time will
ultimately come when even in those years of plenty there will not be
enough to go round; so that hunger will dog the footsteps of the nation.
Nature must now step in once more and select those who are to survive,
or else man will help himself by artificially preventing his own
increase, with all the fatal consequences for the race and the species
which have been already mentioned.

It may be objected here that, in one form or another, this future is in
store for all mankind and that the individual nation or race cannot
escape the general fate.

At first glance, that objection seems logical enough; but we have to
take the following into account:

The day will certainly come when the whole of mankind will be forced to
check the augmentation of the human species, because there will be no
further possibility of adjusting the productivity of the soil to the
perpetual increase in the population. Nature must then be allowed to use
her own methods or man may possibly take the task of regulation into his
own hands and establish the necessary equilibrium by the application of
better means than we have at our disposal to-day. But then it will be a
problem for mankind as a whole, whereas now only those races have to
suffer from want which no longer have the strength and daring to acquire
sufficient soil to fulfil their needs. For, as things stand to-day, vast
spaces still lie uncultivated all over the surface of the globe. Those
spaces are only waiting for the ploughshare. And it is quite certain
that Nature did not set those territories apart as the exclusive
pastures of any one nation or race to be held unutilized in reserve for
the future. Such land awaits the people who have the strength to acquire
it and the diligence to cultivate it.

Nature knows no political frontiers. She begins by establishing life on
this globe and then watches the free play of forces. Those who show the
greatest courage and industry are the children nearest to her heart and
they will be granted the sovereign right of existence.

If a nation confines itself to 'internal colonization' while other races
are perpetually increasing their territorial annexations all over the
globe, that nation will be forced to restrict the numerical growth of
its population at a time when the other nations are increasing theirs.
This situation must eventually arrive. It will arrive soon if the
territory which the nation has at its disposal be small. Now it is
unfortunately true that only too often the best nations--or, to speak
more exactly, the only really cultured nations, who at the same time are
the chief bearers of human progress--have decided, in their blind
pacifism, to refrain from the acquisition of new territory and to be
content with 'internal colonization.' But at the same time nations of
inferior quality succeed in getting hold of large spaces for
colonization all over the globe. The state of affairs which must result
from this contrast is the following:

Races which are culturally superior but less ruthless would be forced to
restrict their increase, because of insufficient territory to support
the population, while less civilized races could increase indefinitely,
owing to the vast territories at their disposal. In other words: should
that state of affairs continue, then the world will one day be possessed
by that portion of mankind which is culturally inferior but more active
and energetic.

A time will come, even though in the distant future, when there can be
only two alternatives: Either the world will be ruled according to our
modern concept of democracy, and then every decision will be in favour
of the numerically stronger races; or the world will be governed by the
law of natural distribution of power, and then those nations will be
victorious who are of more brutal will and are not the nations who have
practised self-denial.

Nobody can doubt that this world will one day be the scene of dreadful
struggles for existence on the part of mankind. In the end the instinct
of self-preservation alone will triumph. Before its consuming fire this
so-called humanitarianism, which connotes only a mixture of fatuous
timidity and self-conceit, will melt away as under the March sunshine.
Man has become great through perpetual struggle. In perpetual peace his
greatness must decline.

For us Germans, the slogan of 'internal colonization' is fatal, because
it encourages the belief that we have discovered a means which is in
accordance with our innate pacifism and which will enable us to work for
our livelihood in a half slumbering existence. Such a teaching, once it
were taken seriously by our people, would mean the end of all effort to
acquire for ourselves that place in the world which we deserve. If. the
average German were once convinced that by this measure he has the
chance of ensuring his livelihood and guaranteeing his future, any
attempt to take an active and profitable part in sustaining the vital
demands of his country would be out of the question. Should the nation
agree to such an attitude then any really useful foreign policy might be
looked upon as dead and buried, together with all hope for the future of
the German people.

Once we know what the consequences of this 'internal colonization'
theory would be we can no longer consider as a mere accident the fact
that among those who inculcate this quite pernicious mentality among our
people the Jew is always in the first line. He knows his softies only
too well not to know that they are ready to be the grateful victims of
every swindle which promises them a gold-block in the shape of a
discovery that will enable them to outwit Nature and thus render
superfluous the hard and inexorable struggle for existence; so that
finally they may become lords of the planet partly by sheer DOLCE FAR
NIENTE and partly by working when a pleasing opportunity arises.

It cannot be too strongly emphasised that any German 'internal
colonization' must first of all be considered as suited only for the
relief of social grievances. To carry out a system of internal
colonization, the most important preliminary measure would be to free
the soil from the grip of the speculator and assure that freedom. But
such a system could never suffice to assure the future of the nation
without the acquisition of new territory.

If we adopt a different plan we shall soon reach a point beyond which
the resources of our soil can no longer be exploited, and at the same
time we shall reach a point beyond which our man-power cannot develop.

In conclusion, the following must be said:

The fact that only up to a limited extent can internal colonization be
practised in a national territory which is of definitely small area and
the restriction of the procreative faculty which follows as a result of
such conditions--these two factors have a very unfavourable effect on
the military and political standing of a nation.

The extent of the national territory is a determining factor in the
external security of the nation. The larger the territory which a people
has at its disposal the stronger are the national defences of that
people. Military decisions are more quickly, more easily, more
completely and more effectively gained against a people occupying a
national territory which is restricted in area, than against States
which have extensive territories. Moreover, the magnitude of a national
territory is in itself a certain assurance that an outside Power will
not hastily risk the adventure of an invasion; for in that case the
struggle would have to be long and exhausting before victory could be
hoped for. The risk being so great. there would have to be extraordinary
reasons for such an aggressive adventure. Hence it is that the
territorial magnitude of a State furnishes a basis whereon national
liberty and independence can be maintained with relative ease; while, on
the contrary, a State whose territory is small offers a natural
temptation to the invader.

As a matter of fact, so-called national circles in the German REICH
rejected those first two possibilities of establishing a balance between
the constant numerical increase in the population and a national
territory which could not expand proportionately. But the reasons given
for that rejection were different from those which I have just
expounded. It was mainly on the basis of certain moral sentiments that
restriction of the birth-rate was objected to. Proposals for internal
colonization were rejected indignantly because it was suspected that
such a policy might mean an attack on the big landowners, and that this
attack might be the forerunner of a general assault against the
principle of private property as a whole. The form in which the latter
solution--internal colonization--was recommended justified the
misgivings of the big landowners.

But the form in which the colonization proposal was rejected was not
very clever, as regards the impression which such rejection might be
calculated to make on the mass of the people, and anyhow it did not go
to the root of the problem at all.

Only two further ways were left open in which work and bread could be
secured for the increasing population.

(3) It was possible to think of acquiring new territory on which a
certain portion of' the increasing population could be settled each
year; or else

(4) Our industry and commerce had to be organized in such a manner as to
secure an increase in the exports and thus be able to support our people
by the increased purchasing power accruing from the profits made on
foreign markets.

Therefore the problem was: A policy of territorial expansion or a
colonial and commercial policy. Both policies were taken into
consideration, examined, recommended and rejected, from various
standpoints, with the result that the second alternative was finally
adopted. The sounder alternative, however, was undoubtedly the first.

The principle of acquiring new territory, on which the surplus
population could be settled, has many advantages to recommend it,
especially if we take the future as well as the present into account.

In the first place, too much importance cannot be placed on the
necessity for adopting a policy which will make it possible to maintain
a healthy peasant class as the basis of the national community. Many of
our present evils have their origin exclusively in the disproportion
between the urban and rural portions of the population. A solid stock of
small and medium farmers has at all times been the best protection which
a nation could have against the social diseases that are prevalent
to-day. Moreover, that is the only solution which guarantees the daily
bread of a nation within the framework of its domestic national economy.
With this condition once guaranteed, industry and commerce would retire
from the unhealthy position of foremost importance which they hold
to-day and would take their due place within the general scheme of
national economy, adjusting the balance between demand and supply. Thus
industry and commerce would no longer constitute the basis of the
national subsistence, but would be auxiliary institutions. By fulfilling
their proper function, which is to adjust the balance between national
production and national consumption, they render the national
subsistence more or less independent of foreign countries and thus
assure the freedom and independence of the nation, especially at
critical junctures in its history.

Such a territorial policy, however, cannot find its fulfilment in the
Cameroons but almost exclusively here in Europe. One must calmly and
squarely face the truth that it certainly cannot be part of the
dispensation of Divine Providence to give a fifty times larger share of
the soil of this world to one nation than to another. In considering
this state of affairs to-day, one must not allow existing political
frontiers to distract attention from what ought to exist on principles
of strict justice. If this earth has sufficient room for all, then we
ought to have that share of the soil which is absolutely necessary for
our existence.

Of course people will not voluntarily make that accommodation. At this
point the right of self-preservation comes into effect. And when
attempts to settle the difficulty in an amicable way are rejected the
clenched hand must take by force that which was refused to the open hand
of friendship. If in the past our ancestors had based their political
decisions on similar pacifist nonsense as our present generation does,
we should not possess more than one-third of the national territory that
we possess to-day and probably there would be no German nation to worry
about its future in Europe. No. We owe the two Eastern Marks (Note 8) of
the Empire to the natural determination of our forefathers in their
struggle for existence, and thus it is to the same determined policy that
we owe the inner strength which is based on the extent of our political
and racial territories and which alone has made it possible for us to
exist up to now.

[Note 8. German Austria was the East Mark on the South and East Prussia
was the East Mark on the North.]

And there is still another reason why that solution would have been the
correct one:

Many contemporary European States are like pyramids standing on their
apexes. The European territory which these States possess is
ridiculously small when compared with the enormous overhead weight of
their colonies, foreign trade, etc. It may be said that they have the
apex in Europe and the base of the pyramid all over the world; quite
different from the United States of America, which has its base on the
American Continent and is in contact with the rest of the world only
through its apex. Out of that situation arises the incomparable inner
strength of the U.S.A. and the contrary situation is responsible for the
weakness of most of the colonial European Powers.

England cannot be suggested as an argument against this assertion,
though in glancing casually over the map of the British Empire one is
inclined easily to overlook the existence of a whole Anglo-Saxon world.
England's position cannot be compared with that of any other State in
Europe, since it forms a vast community of language and culture together
with the U.S.A.

Therefore the only possibility which Germany had of carrying a sound
territorial policy into effect was that of acquiring new territory in
Europe itself. Colonies cannot serve this purpose as long as they are
not suited for settlement by Europeans on a large scale. In the
nineteenth century it was no longer possible to acquire such colonies by
peaceful means. Therefore any attempt at such a colonial expansion would
have meant an enormous military struggle. Consequently it would have
been more practical to undertake that military struggle for new
territory in Europe rather than to wage war for the acquisition of
possessions abroad.

Such a decision naturally demanded that the nation's undivided energies
should be devoted to it. A policy of that kind which requires for its
fulfilment every ounce of available energy on the part of everybody
concerned, cannot be carried into effect by half-measures or in a
hesitating manner. The political leadership of the German Empire should
then have been directed exclusively to this goal. No political step
should have been taken in response to other considerations than this
task and the means of accomplishing it. Germany should have been alive
to the fact that such a goal could have been reached only by war, and
the prospect of war should have been faced with calm and collected
determination.

The whole system of alliances should have been envisaged and valued from
that standpoint. If new territory were to be acquired in Europe it must
have been mainly at Russia's cost, and once again the new German Empire
should have set out on its march along the same road as was formerly
trodden by the Teutonic Knights, this time to acquire soil for the
German plough by means of the German sword and thus provide the nation
with its daily bread.

For such a policy, however, there was only one possible ally in Europe.
That was England.

Only by alliance with England was it possible to safeguard the rear of
the new German crusade. The justification for undertaking such an
expedition was stronger than the justification which our forefathers had
for setting out on theirs. Not one of our pacifists refuses to eat the
bread made from the grain grown in the East; and yet the first plough
here was that called the 'Sword'.

No sacrifice should have been considered too great if it was a necessary
means of gaining England's friendship. Colonial and naval ambitions
should have been abandoned and attempts should not have been made to
compete against British industries.

Only a clear and definite policy could lead to such an achievement. Such
a policy would have demanded a renunciation of the endeavour to conquer
the world's markets, also a renunciation of colonial intentions and
naval power. All the means of power at the disposal of the State should
have been concentrated in the military forces on land. This policy would
have involved a period of temporary self-denial, for the sake of a great
and powerful future.

There was a time when England might have entered into negotiations with
us, on the grounds of that proposal. For England would have well
understood that the problems arising from the steady increase in
population were forcing Germany to look for a solution either in Europe
with the help of England or, without England, in some other part of the
world.

This outlook was probably the chief reason why London tried to draw
nearer to Germany about the turn of the century. For the first time in
Germany an attitude was then manifested which afterwards displayed
itself in a most tragic way. People then gave expression to an
unpleasant feeling that we might thus find ourselves obliged to pull
England's chestnuts out of the fire. As if an alliance could be based on
anything else than mutual give-and-take! And England would have become a
party to such a mutual bargain. British diplomats were still wise enough
to know that an equivalent must be forthcoming as a consideration for
any services rendered.

Let us suppose that in 1904 our German foreign policy was managed
astutely enough to enable us to take the part which Japan played. It is
not easy to measure the greatness of the results that might have accrued
to Germany from such a policy.

There would have been no world war. The blood which would have been shed
in 1904 would not have been a tenth of that shed from 1914 to 1918. And
what a position Germany would hold in the world to-day?

In any case the alliance with Austria was then an absurdity.

For this mummy of a State did not attach itself to Germany for the
purpose of carrying through a war, but rather to maintain a perpetual
state of peace which was meant to be exploited for the purpose of slowly
but persistently exterminating the German element in the Dual Monarchy.

Another reason for the impossible character of this alliance was that
nobody could expect such a State to take an active part in defending
German national interests, seeing that it did not have sufficient
strength and determination to put an end to the policy of
de-Germanization within its own frontiers. If Germany herself was not
moved by a sufficiently powerful national sentiment and was not
sufficiently ruthless to take away from that absurd Habsburg State the
right to decide the destinies of ten million inhabitants who were of the
same nationality as the Germans themselves, surely it was out of the
question to expect the Habsburg State to be a collaborating party in any
great and courageous German undertaking. The attitude of the old REICH
towards the Austrian question might have been taken as a test of its
stamina for the struggle where the destinies of the whole nation were at
stake.

In any case, the policy of oppression against the German population in
Austria should not have been allowed to be carried on and to grow
stronger from year to year; for the value of Austria as an ally could be
assured only by upholding the German element there. But that course was
not followed.

Nothing was dreaded so much as the possibility of an armed conflict; but
finally, and at a most unfavourable moment, the conflict had to be faced
and accepted. They thought to cut loose from the cords of destiny, but
destiny held them fast.

They dreamt of maintaining a world peace and woke up to find themselves
in a world war.

And that dream of peace was a most significant reason why the
above-mentioned third alternative for the future development of Germany
was not even taken into consideration. The fact was recognized that new
territory could be gained only in the East; but this meant that there
would be fighting ahead, whereas they wanted peace at any cost. The
slogan of German foreign policy at one time used to be: The use of all
possible means for the maintenance of the German nation. Now it was
changed to: Maintenance of world peace by all possible means. We know
what the result was. I shall resume the discussion of this point in
detail later on.

There remained still another alternative, which we may call the fourth.
This was: Industry and world trade, naval power and colonies.

Such a development might certainly have been attained more easily and
more rapidly. To colonize a territory is a slow process, often extending
over centuries. Yet this fact is the source of its inner strength, for
it is not through a sudden burst of enthusiasm that it can be put into
effect, but rather through a gradual and enduring process of growth
quite different from industrial progress, which can be urged on by
advertisement within a few years. The result thus achieved, however, is
not of lasting quality but something frail, like a soap-bubble. It is
much easier to build quickly than to carry through the tough task of
settling a territory with farmers and establishing farmsteads. But the
former is more quickly destroyed than the latter.

In adopting such a course Germany must have known that to follow it out
would necessarily mean war sooner or later. Only children could believe
that sweet and unctuous expressions of goodness and persistent avowals
of peaceful intentions could get them their bananas through this
'friendly competition between the nations', with the prospect of never
having to fight for them.

No. Once we had taken this road, England was bound to be our enemy at
some time or other to come. Of course it fitted in nicely with our
innocent assumptions, but still it was absurd to grow indignant at the
fact that a day came when the English took the liberty of opposing our
peaceful penetration with the brutality of violent egoists.

Naturally, we on our side would never have done such a thing.

If a European territorial policy against Russia could have been put into
practice only in case we had England as our ally, on the other hand a
colonial and world-trade policy could have been carried into effect only
against English interests and with the support of Russia. But then this
policy should have been adopted in full consciousness of all the
consequences it involved and, above all things, Austria should have been
discarded as quickly as possible.

At the turn of the century the alliance with Austria had become a
veritable absurdity from all points of view.

But nobody thought of forming an alliance with Russia against England,
just as nobody thought of making England an ally against Russia; for in
either case the final result would inevitably have meant war. And to
avoid war was the very reason why a commercial and industrial policy was
decided upon. It was believed that the peaceful conquest of the world by
commercial means provided a method which would permanently supplant the
policy of force. Occasionally, however, there were doubts about the
efficiency of this principle, especially when some quite
incomprehensible warnings came from England now and again. That was the
reason why the fleet was built. It was not for the purpose of attacking
or annihilating England but merely to defend the concept of world-peace,
mentioned above, and also to protect the principle of conquering the
world by 'peaceful' means. Therefore this fleet was kept within modest
limits, not only as regards the number and tonnage of the vessels but
also in regard to their armament, the idea being to furnish new proofs
of peaceful intentions.

The chatter about the peaceful conquest of the world by commercial means
was probably the most completely nonsensical stuff ever raised to the
dignity of a guiding principle in the policy of a State, This nonsense
became even more foolish when England was pointed out as a typical
example to prove how the thing could be put into practice. Our doctrinal
way of regarding history and our professorial ideas in that domain have
done irreparable harm and offer a striking 'proof' of how people 'learn'
history without understanding anything of it. As a matter of fact,
England ought to have been looked upon as a convincing argument against
the theory of the pacific conquest of the world by commercial means. No
nation prepared the way for its commercial conquests more brutally than
England did by means of the sword, and no other nation has defended such
conquests more ruthlessly. Is it not a characteristic quality of British
statecraft that it knows how to use political power in order to gain
economic advantages and, inversely, to turn economic conquests into
political power? What an astounding error it was to believe that England
would not have the courage to give its own blood for the purposes of its
own economic expansion! The fact that England did not possess a national
army proved nothing; for it is not the actual military structure of the
moment that matters but rather the will and determination to use
whatever military strength is available. England has always had the
armament which she needed. She always fought with those weapons which
were necessary for success. She sent mercenary troops, to fight as long
as mercenaries sufficed; but she never hesitated to draw heavily and
deeply from the best blood of the whole nation when victory could be
obtained only by such a sacrifice. And in every case the fighting
spirit, dogged determination, and use of brutal means in conducting
military operations have always remained the same.

But in Germany, through the medium of the schools, the Press and the
comic papers, an idea of the Englishman was gradually formed which was
bound eventually to lead to the worst kind of self-deception. This
absurdity slowly but persistently spread into every quarter of German
life. The result was an undervaluation for which we have had to pay a
heavy penalty. The delusion was so profound that the Englishman was
looked upon as a shrewd business man, but personally a coward even to an
incredible degree. Unfortunately our lofty teachers of professorial
history did not bring home to the minds of their pupils the truth that
it is not possible to build up such a mighty organization as the British
Empire by mere swindle and fraud. The few who called attention to that
truth were either ignored or silenced. I can vividly recall to mind the
astonished looks of my comrades when they found themselves personally
face to face for the first time with the Tommies in Flanders. After a
few days of fighting the consciousness slowly dawned on our soldiers
that those Scotsmen were not like the ones we had seen described and
caricatured in the comic papers and mentioned in the communique's.

It was then that I formed my first ideas of the efficiency of various
forms of propaganda.

Such a falsification, however, served the purpose of those who had
fabricated it. This caricature of the Englishman, though false, could be
used to prove the possibility of conquering the world peacefully by
commercial means. Where the Englishman succeeded we should also succeed.
Our far greater honesty and our freedom from that specifically English
'perfidy' would be assets on our side. Thereby it was hoped that the
sympathy of the smaller nations and the confidence of the greater
nations could be gained more easily.

We did not realize that our honesty was an object of profound aversion
for other people because we ourselves believed in it. The rest of the
world looked on our behaviour as the manifestation of a shrewd
deceitfulness; but when the revolution came, then they were amazed at
the deeper insight it gave them into our mentality, sincere even beyond
the limits of stupidity.

Once we understand the part played by that absurd notion of conquering
the world by peaceful commercial means we can clearly understand how
that other absurdity, the Triple Alliance, came to exist. With what
State then could an alliance have been made? In alliance with Austria we
could not acquire new territory by military means, even in Europe. And
this very fact was the real reason for the inner weakness of the Triple
Alliance. A Bismarck could permit himself such a makeshift for the
necessities of the moment, but certainly not any of his bungling
successors, and least of all when the foundations no longer existed on
which Bismarck had formed the Triple Alliance. In Bismarck's time
Austria could still be looked upon as a German State; but the gradual
introduction of universal suffrage turned the country into a
parliamentary Babel, in which the German voice was scarcely audible.

From the viewpoint of racial policy, this alliance with Austria was
simply disastrous. A new Slavic Great Power was allowed to grow up close
to the frontiers of the German Empire. Later on this Power was bound to
adopt towards Germany an attitude different from that of Russia, for
example. The Alliance was thus bound to become more empty and more
feeble, because the only supporters of it were losing their influence
and were being systematically pushed out of the more important public
offices.

About the year 1900 the Alliance with Austria had already entered the
same phase as the Alliance between Austria and Italy.

Here also only one alternative was possible: Either to take the side of
the Habsburg Monarchy or to raise a protest against the oppression of
the German element in Austria. But, generally speaking, when one takes
such a course it is bound eventually to lead to open conflict.

From the psychological point of view also, the Triple decreases
according as such an alliance limits its object to the defence of the
STATUS QUO. But, on the other hand, an alliance will increase its
cohesive strength the more the parties concerned in it may hope to use
it as a means of reaching some practical goal of expansion. Here, as
everywhere else, strength does not lie in defence but in attack.

This truth was recognized in various quarters but, unfortunately, not by
the so-called elected representatives of the people. As early as 1912
Ludendorff, who was then Colonel and an Officer of the General Staff,
pointed out these weak features of the Alliance in a memorandum which he
then drew up. But of course the 'statesmen' did not attach any
importance or value to that document. In general it would seem as if
reason were a faculty that is active only in the case of ordinary
mortals but that it is entirely absent when we come to deal with that
branch of the species known as 'diplomats'.

It was lucky for Germany that the war of 1914 broke out with Austria as
its direct cause, for thus the Habsburgs were compelled to participate.
Had the origin of the War been otherwise, Germany would have been left
to her own resources. The Habsburg State would never have been ready or
willing to take part in a war for the origin of which Germany was
responsible. What was the object of so much obloquy later in the case of
Italy's decision would have taken place, only earlier, in the case of
Austria. In other words, if Germany had been forced to go to war for
some reason of its own, Austria would have remained 'neutral' in order
to safeguard the State against a revolution which might begin
immediately after the war had started. The Slav element would have
preferred to smash up the Dual Monarchy in 1914 rather than permit it to
come to the assistance of Germany. But at that time there were only a
few who understood all the dangers and aggravations which resulted from
the alliance with the Danubian Monarchy.

In the first place, Austria had too many enemies who were eagerly
looking forward to obtain the heritage of that decrepit State, so that
these people gradually developed a certain animosity against Germany,
because Germany was an obstacle to their desires inasmuch as it kept the
Dual Monarchy from falling to pieces, a consummation that was hoped for
and yearned for on all sides. The conviction developed that Vienna could
be reached only by passing through Berlin.

In the second place, by adopting this policy Germany lost its best and
most promising chances of other alliances. In place of these
possibilities one now observed a growing tension in the relations with
Russia and even with Italy. And this in spite of the fact that the
general attitude in Rome was just as favourable to Germany as it was
hostile to Austria, a hostility which lay dormant in the individual
Italian and broke out violently on occasion.

Since a commercial and industrial policy had been adopted, no motive was
left for waging war against Russia. Only the enemies of the two
countries, Germany and Russia, could have an active interest in such a
war under these circumstances. As a matter of fact, it was only the Jews
and the Marxists who tried to stir up bad blood between the two States.

In the third place, the Alliance constituted a permanent danger to
German security; for any great Power that was hostile to Bismarck's
Empire could mobilize a whole lot of other States in a war against
Germany by promising them tempting spoils at the expense of the Austrian
ally.

It was possible to arouse the whole of Eastern Europe against Austria,
especially Russia, and Italy also. The world coalition which had
developed under the leadership of King Edward could never have become a
reality if Germany's ally, Austria, had not offered such an alluring
prospect of booty. It was this fact alone which made it possible to
combine so many heterogeneous States with divergent interests into one
common phalanx of attack. Every member could hope to enrich himself at
the expense of Austria if he joined in the general attack against
Germany. The fact that Turkey was also a tacit party to the unfortunate
alliance with Austria augmented Germany's peril to an extraordinary
degree.

Jewish international finance needed this bait of the Austrian heritage
in order to carry out its plans of ruining Germany; for Germany had not
yet surrendered to the general control which the international captains
of finance and trade exercised over the other States. Thus it was
possible to consolidate that coalition and make it strong enough and
brave enough, through the sheer weight of numbers, to join in bodily
conflict with the 'horned' Siegfried. (Note 9)

[Note 9. Carlyle explains the epithet thus: "First then, let no one from
the title GEHOERNTE (Horned, Behorned), fancy that our brave Siegfried,
who was the loveliest as well as the bravest of men, was actually
cornuted, and had hornson his brow, though like Michael Angelo's Moses; or
even that his skin, to which the epithet BEHORNED refers, was hard like a
crocodile's, and not softer than the softest shamey, for the truth is,
his Hornedness means only an Invulnerability, like that of Achilles..."]

The alliance with the Habsburg Monarchy, which I loathed while still in
Austria, was the subject of grave concern on my part and caused me to
meditate on it so persistently that finally I came to the conclusions
which I have mentioned above.

In the small circles which I frequented at that time I did not conceal
my conviction that this sinister agreement with a State doomed to
collapse would also bring catastrophe to Germany if she did not free
herself from it in time. I never for a moment wavered in that firm
conviction, even when the tempest of the World War seemed to have made
shipwreck of the reasoning faculty itself and had put blind enthusiasm
in its place, even among those circles where the coolest and hardest
objective thinking ought to have held sway. In the trenches I voiced and
upheld my own opinion whenever these problems came under discussion. I
held that to abandon the Habsburg Monarchy would involve no sacrifice if
Germany could thereby reduce the number of her own enemies; for the
millions of Germans who had donned the steel helmet had done so not to
fight for the maintenance of a corrupt dynasty but rather for the
salvation of the German people.

Before the War there were occasions on which it seemed that at least one
section of the German public had some slight misgivings about the
political wisdom of the alliance with Austria. From time to time German
conservative circles issued warnings against being over-confident about
the worth of that alliance; but, like every other reasonable suggestion
made at that time, it was thrown to the winds. The general conviction
was that the right measures had been adopted to 'conquer' the world,
that the success of these measures would be enormous and the sacrifices
negligible.

Once again the 'uninitiated' layman could do nothing but observe how the
'elect' were marching straight ahead towards disaster and enticing their
beloved people to follow them, as the rats followed the Pied Piper of
Hamelin.

If we would look for the deeper grounds which made it possible to foist
on the people this absurd notion of peacefully conquering the world
through commercial penetration, and how it was possible to put forward
the maintenance of world-peace as a national aim, we shall find that
these grounds lay in a general morbid condition that had pervaded the
whole body of German political thought.

The triumphant progress of technical science in Germany and the
marvellous development of German industries and commerce led us to
forget that a powerful State had been the necessary pre-requisite of
that success. On the contrary, certain circles went even so far as to
give vent to the theory that the State owed its very existence to these
phenomena; that it was, above all, an economic institution and should be
constituted in accordance with economic interests. Therefore, it was
held, the State was dependent on the economic structure. This condition
of things was looked upon and glorified as the soundest and most normal
arrangement.

Now, the truth is that the State in itself has nothing whatsoever to do
with any definite economic concept or a definite economic development.
It does not arise from a compact made between contracting parties,
within a certain delimited territory, for the purpose of serving
economic ends. The State is a community of living beings who have
kindred physical and spiritual natures, organized for the purpose of
assuring the conservation of their own kind and to help towards
fulfilling those ends which Providence has assigned to that particular
race or racial branch. Therein, and therein alone, lie the purpose and
meaning of a State. Economic activity is one of the many auxiliary means
which are necessary for the attainment of those aims. But economic
activity is never the origin or purpose of a State, except where a State
has been originally founded on a false and unnatural basis. And this
alone explains why a State as such does not necessarily need a certain
delimited territory as a condition of its establishment. This condition
becomes a necessary pre-requisite only among those people who would
provide and assure subsistence for their kinsfolk through their own
industry, which means that they are ready to carry on the struggle for
existence by means of their own work. People who can sneak their way,
like parasites, into the human body politic and make others work for
them under various pretences can form a State without possessing any
definite delimited territory. This is chiefly applicable to that
parasitic nation which, particularly at the present time preys upon the
honest portion of mankind; I mean the Jews.

The Jewish State has never been delimited in space. It has been spread
all over the world, without any frontiers whatsoever, and has always
been constituted from the membership of one race exclusively. That is
why the Jews have always formed a State within the State. One of the
most ingenious tricks ever devised has been that of sailing the Jewish
ship-of-state under the flag of Religion and thus securing that
tolerance which Aryans are always ready to grant to different religious
faiths. But the Mosaic Law is really nothing else than the doctrine of
the preservation of the Jewish race. Therefore this Law takes in all
spheres of sociological, political and economic science which have a
bearing on the main end in view.

The instinct for the preservation of one's own species is the primary
cause that leads to the formation of human communities. Hence the State
is a racial organism, and not an economic organization. The difference
between the two is so great as to be incomprehensible to our
contemporary so-called 'statesmen'. That is why they like to believe
that the State may be constituted as an economic structure, whereas the
truth is that it has always resulted from the exercise of those
qualities which are part of the will to preserve the species and the
race. But these qualities always exist and operate through the heroic
virtues and have nothing to do with commercial egoism; for the
conservation of the species always presupposes that the individual is
ready to sacrifice himself. Such is the meaning of the poet's lines:

UND SETZET IHR NICHT DAS LEBEN EIN,
NIE WIRD EUCH DAS LEBEN GEWONNEN SEIN.

(AND IF YOU DO NOT STAKE YOUR LIFE,
YOU WILL NEVER WIN LIFE FOR YOURSELF.)

[Note 10. Lines quoted from the Song of the Curassiers in Schiller's
WALLENSTEIN.]

The sacrifice of the individual existence is necessary in order to
assure the conservation of the race. Hence it is that the most essential
condition for the establishment and maintenance of a State is a certain
feeling of solidarity, wounded in an identity of character and race and
in a resolute readiness to defend these at all costs. With people who
live on their own territory this will result in a development of the
heroic virtues; with a parasitic people it will develop the arts of
subterfuge and gross perfidy unless we admit that these characteristics
are innate and that the varying political forms through which the
parasitic race expresses itself are only the outward manifestations of
innate characteristics. At least in the beginning, the formation of a
State can result only from a manifestation of the heroic qualities I
have spoken of. And the people who fail in the struggle for existence,
that is to say those, who become vassals and are thereby condemned to
disappear entirely sooner or later, are those who do not display the
heroic virtues in the struggle, or those who fall victims to the perfidy
of the parasites. And even in this latter case the failure is not so
much due to lack of intellectual powers, but rather to a lack of courage
and determination. An attempt is made to conceal the real nature of this
failing by saying that it is the humane feeling.

The qualities which are employed for the foundation and preservation of
a State have accordingly little or nothing to do with the economic
situation. And this is conspicuously demonstrated by the fact that the
inner strength of a State only very rarely coincides with what is called
its economic expansion. On the contrary, there are numerous examples to
show that a period of economic prosperity indicates the approaching
decline of a State. If it were correct to attribute the foundation of
human communities to economic forces, then the power of the State as
such would be at its highest pitch during periods of economic
prosperity, and not vice versa.

It is specially difficult to understand how the belief that the State is
brought into being and preserved by economic forces could gain currency
in a country which has given proof of the opposite in every phase of its
history. The history of Prussia shows in a manner particularly clear and
distinct, that it is out of the moral virtues of the people and not from
their economic circumstances that a State is formed. It is only under
the protection of those virtues that economic activities can be
developed and the latter will continue to flourish until a time comes
when the creative political capacity declines. Therewith the economic
structure will also break down, a phenomenon which is now happening in
an alarming manner before our eyes. The material interest of mankind can
prosper only in the shade of the heroic virtues. The moment they become
the primary considerations of life they wreck the basis of their own
existence.

Whenever the political power of Germany was specially strong the
economic situation also improved. But whenever economic interests alone
occupied the foremost place in the life of the people, and thrust
transcendent ideals into the back.-ground, the State collapsed and
economic ruin followed readily.

If we consider the question of what those forces actually are which are
necessary to the creation and preservation of a State, we shall find
that they are: The capacity and readiness to sacrifice the individual to
the common welfare. That these qualities have nothing at all to do with
economics can be proved by referring to the simple fact that man does
not sacrifice himself for material interests. In other words, he will
die for an ideal but not for a business. The marvellous gift for public
psychology which the English have was never shown better than the way in
which they presented their case in the World War. We were fighting for
our bread; but the English declared that they were fighting for
'freedom', and not at all for their own freedom. Oh, no, but for the
freedom of the small nations. German people laughed at that effrontery
and were angered by it; but in doing so they showed how political
thought had declined among our so-called diplomats in Germany even
before the War. These diplomatists did not have the slightest notion of
what that force was which brought men to face death of their own free
will and determination.

As long as the German people, in the War of 1914, continued to believe
that they were fighting for ideals they stood firm. As soon as they were
told that they were fighting only for their daily bread they began to
give up the struggle.

Our clever 'statesmen' were greatly amazed at this change of feeling.
They never understood that as soon as man is called upon to struggle for
purely material causes he will avoid death as best he can; for death and
the enjoyment of the material fruits of a victory are quite incompatible
concepts. The frailest woman will become a heroine when the life of her
own child is at stake. And only the will to save the race and native
land or the State, which offers protection to the race, has in all ages
been the urge which has forced men to face the weapons of their enemies.

The following may be proclaimed as a truth that always holds good:

A State has never arisen from commercial causes for the purpose of
peacefully serving commercial ends; but States have always arisen from
the instinct to maintain the racial group, whether this instinct
manifest itself in the heroic sphere or in the sphere of cunning and
chicanery. In the first case we have the Aryan States, based on the
principles of work and cultural development. In the second case we have
the Jewish parasitic colonies. But as soon as economic interests begin
to predominate over the racial and cultural instincts in a people or a
State, these economic interests unloose the causes that lead to
subjugation and oppression.

The belief, which prevailed in Germany before the War, that the world
could be opened up and even conquered for Germany through a system of
peaceful commercial penetration and a colonial policy was a typical
symptom which indicated the decline of those real qualities whereby
States are created and preserved, and indicated also the decline of that
insight, will-power and practical determination which belong to those
qualities. The World War with its consequences, was the natural
liquidation of that decline.

To anyone who had not thought over the matter deeply, this attitude of
the German people--which was quite general--must have seemed an
insoluble enigma. After all, Germany herself was a magnificent example
of an empire that had been built up purely by a policy of power.
Prussia, which was the generative cell of the German Empire, had been
created by brilliant heroic deeds and not by a financial or commercial
compact. And the Empire itself was but the magnificent recompense for a
leadership that had been conducted on a policy of power and military
valour.

How then did it happen that the political instincts of this very same
German people became so degenerate? For it was not merely one isolated
phenomenon which pointed to this decadence, but morbid symptoms which
appeared in alarming numbers, now all over the body politic, or eating
into the body of the nation like a gangrenous ulcer. It seemed as if
some all-pervading poisonous fluid had been injected by some mysterious
hand into the bloodstream of this once heroic body, bringing about a
creeping paralysis that affected the reason and the elementary instinct
of self-preservation.

During the years 1912-1914 I used to ponder perpetually on those
problems which related to the policy of the Triple Alliance and the
economic policy then being pursued by the German Empire. Once again I
came to the conclusion that the only explanation of this enigma lay in
the operation of that force which I had already become acquainted with
in Vienna, though from a different angle of vision. The force to which I
refer was the Marxist teaching and WELTANSCHAUUNG and its organized
action throughout the nation.

For the second time in my life I plunged deep into the study of that
destructive teaching. This time, however, I was not urged by the study
of the question by the impressions and influences of my daily
environment, but directed rather by the observation of general phenomena
in the political life of Germany. In delving again into the theoretical
literature of this new world and endeavouring to get a clear view of the
possible consequences of its teaching, I compared the theoretical
principles of Marxism with the phenomena and happenings brought about by
its activities in the political, cultural, and economic spheres.

For the first time in my life I now turned my attention to the efforts
that were being made to subdue this universal pest.

I studied Bismarck's exceptional legislation in its original concept,
its operation and its results. Gradually I formed a basis for my own
opinions, which has proved as solid as a rock, so that never since have
I had to change my attitude towards the general problem. I also made a
further and more thorough analysis of the relations between Marxism and
Jewry.

During my sojourn in Vienna I used to look upon Germany as an
imperturbable colossus; but even then serious doubts and misgivings
would often disturb me. In my own mind and in my conversation with my
small circle of acquaintances I used to criticize Germany's foreign
policy and the incredibly superficial way, according to my thinking, in
which Marxism was dealt with, though it was then the most important
problem in Germany. I could not understand how they could stumble
blindfolded into the midst of this peril, the effects of which would be
momentous if the openly declared aims of Marxism could be put into
practice. Even as early as that time I warned people around me, just as
I am warning a wider audience now, against that soothing slogan of all
indolent and feckless nature: NOTHING CAN HAPPEN TO US. A similar mental
contagion had already destroyed a mighty empire. Can Germany escape the
operation of those laws to which all other human communities are
subject?

In the years 1913 and 1914 I expressed my opinion for the first time in
various circles, some of which are now members of the National Socialist
Movement, that the problem of how the future of the German nation can be
secured is the problem of how Marxism can be exterminated.

I considered the disastrous policy of the Triple Alliance as one of the
consequences resulting from the disintegrating effects of the Marxist
teaching; for the alarming feature was that this teaching was invisibly
corrupting the foundations of a healthy political and economic outlook.
Those who had been themselves contaminated frequently did not realise
that their aims and actions sprang from this WELTANSCHAUUNG, which they
otherwise openly repudiated.

Long before then the spiritual and moral decline of the German people
had set in, though those who were affected by the morbid decadence were
frequently unaware--as often happens--of the forces which were breaking
up their very existence. Sometimes they tried to cure the disease by
doctoring the symptoms, which were taken as the cause. But since nobody
recognized, or wanted to recognize, the real cause of the disease this
way of combating Marxism was no more effective than the application of
some quack's ointment.




CHAPTER V



THE WORLD WAR


During the boisterous years of my youth nothing used to damp my wild
spirits so much as to think that I was born at a time when the world had
manifestly decided not to erect any more temples of fame except in
honour of business people and State officials. The tempest of historical
achievements seemed to have permanently subsided, so much so that the
future appeared to be irrevocably delivered over to what was called
peaceful competition between the nations. This simply meant a system of
mutual exploitation by fraudulent means, the principle of resorting to
the use of force in self-defence being formally excluded. Individual
countries increasingly assumed the appearance of commercial
undertakings, grabbing territory and clients and concessions from each
other under any and every kind of pretext. And it was all staged to an
accompaniment of loud but innocuous shouting. This trend of affairs
seemed destined to develop steadily and permanently. Having the support
of public approbation, it seemed bound eventually to transform the world
into a mammoth department store. In the vestibule of this emporium there
would be rows of monumental busts which would confer immortality on
those profiteers who had proved themselves the shrewdest at their trade
and those administrative officials who had shown themselves the most
innocuous. The salesmen could be represented by the English and the
administrative functionaries by the Germans; whereas the Jews would be
sacrificed to the unprofitable calling of proprietorship, for they are
constantly avowing that they make no profits and are always being called
upon to 'pay out'. Moreover they have the advantage of being versed in
the foreign languages.

Why could I not have been born a hundred years ago? I used to ask
myself. Somewhere about the time of the Wars of Liberation, when a man
was still of some value even though he had no 'business'.

Thus I used to think it an ill-deserved stroke of bad luck that I had
arrived too late on this terrestrial globe, and I felt chagrined at the
idea that my life would have to run its course along peaceful and
orderly lines. As a boy I was anything but a pacifist and all attempts
to make me so turned out futile.

Then the Boer War came, like a glow of lightning on the far horizon. Day
after day I used to gaze intently at the newspapers and I almost
'devoured' the telegrams and COMMUNIQUES, overjoyed to think that I
could witness that heroic struggle, even though from so great a
distance.

When the Russo-Japanese War came I was older and better able to judge
for myself. For national reasons I then took the side of the Japanese in
our discussions. I looked upon the defeat of the Russians as a blow to
Austrian Slavism.

Many years had passed between that time and my arrival in Munich. I now
realized that what I formerly believed to be a morbid decadence was only
the lull before the storm. During my Vienna days the Balkans were
already in the grip of that sultry pause which presages the violent
storm. Here and there a flash of lightning could be occasionally seen;
but it rapidly disappeared in sinister gloom. Then the Balkan War broke
out; and therewith the first gusts of the forthcoming tornado swept
across a highly-strung Europe. In the supervening calm men felt the
atmosphere oppressive and foreboding, so much so that the sense of an
impending catastrophe became transformed into a feeling of impatient
expectance. They wished that Heaven would give free rein to the fate
which could now no longer be curbed. Then the first great bolt of
lightning struck the earth. The storm broke and the thunder of the
heavens intermingled with the roar of the cannons in the World War.

When the news came to Munich that the Archduke Franz Ferdinand had been
murdered, I had been at home all day and did not get the particulars of
how it happened. At first I feared that the shots may have been fired by
some German-Austrian students who had been aroused to a state of furious
indignation by the persistent pro-Slav activities of the Heir to the
Habsburg Throne and therefore wished to liberate the German population
from this internal enemy. It was quite easy to imagine what the result
of such a mistake would have been. It would have brought on a new wave
of persecution, the motives of which would have been 'justified' before
the whole world. But soon afterwards I heard the names of the presumed
assassins and also that they were known to be Serbs. I felt somewhat
dumbfounded in face of the inexorable vengeance which Destiny had
wrought. The greatest friend of the Slavs had fallen a victim to the
bullets of Slav patriots.

It is unjust to the Vienna government of that time to blame it now for
the form and tenor of the ultimatum which was then presented. In a
similar position and under similar circumstances, no other Power in the
world would have acted otherwise. On her southern frontiers Austria had
a relentless mortal foe who indulged in acts of provocation against the
Dual Monarchy at intervals which were becoming more and more frequent.
This persistent line of conduct would not have been relaxed until the
arrival of the opportune moment for the destruction of the Empire. In
Austria there was good reason to fear that, at the latest, this moment
would come with the death of the old Emperor. Once that had taken place,
it was quite possible that the Monarchy would not be able to offer any
serious resistance. For some years past the State had been so completely
identified with the personality of Francis Joseph that, in the eyes of
the great mass of the people, the death of this venerable
personification of the Empire would be tantamount to the death of the
Empire itself. Indeed it was one of the clever artifices of Slav policy
to foster the impression that the Austrian State owed its very existence
exclusively to the prodigies and rare talents of that monarch. This kind
of flattery was particularly welcomed at the Hofburg, all the more
because it had no relation whatsoever to the services actually rendered
by the Emperor. No effort whatsoever was made to locate the carefully
prepared sting which lay hidden in this glorifying praise. One fact
which was entirely overlooked, perhaps intentionally, was that the more
the Empire remained dependent on the so-called administrative talents of
'the wisest Monarch of all times', the more catastrophic would be the
situation when Fate came to knock at the door and demand its tribute.

Was it possible even to imagine the Austrian Empire without its
venerable ruler? Would not the tragedy which befell Maria Theresa be
repeated at once?

It is really unjust to the Vienna governmental circles to reproach them
with having instigated a war which might have been prevented. The war
was bound to come. Perhaps it might have been postponed for a year or
two at the most. But it had always been the misfortune of German, as
well as Austrian, diplomats that they endeavoured to put off the
inevitable day of reckoning, with the result that they were finally
compelled to deliver their blow at a most inopportune moment.

No. Those who did not wish this war ought to have had the courage to
take the consequences of the refusal upon themselves. Those consequences
must necessarily have meant the sacrifice of Austria. And even then war
would have come, not as a war in which all the nations would have been
banded against us but in the form of a dismemberment of the Habsburg
Monarchy. In that case we should have had to decide whether we should
come to the assistance of the Habsburg or stand aside as spectators,
with our arms folded, and thus allow Fate to run its course.

Just those who are loudest in their imprecations to-day and make a great
parade of wisdom in judging the causes of the war are the very same
people whose collaboration was the most fatal factor in steering towards
the war.

For several decades previously the German Social-Democrats had been
agitating in an underhand and knavish way for war against Russia;
whereas the German Centre Party, with religious ends in view, had worked
to make the Austrian State the chief centre and turning-point of German
policy. The consequences of this folly had now to be borne. What came
was bound to come and under no circumstances could it have been avoided.
The fault of the German Government lay in the fact that, merely for the
sake of preserving peace at all costs, it continued to miss the
occasions that were favourable for action, got entangled in an alliance
for the purpose of preserving the peace of the world, and thus finally
became the victim of a world coalition which opposed the German effort
for the maintenance of peace and was determined to bring about the world
war.

Had the Vienna Government of that time formulated its ultimatum in less
drastic terms, that would not have altered the situation at all: but
such a course might have aroused public indignation. For, in the eyes of
the great masses, the ultimatum was too moderate and certainly not
excessive or brutal. Those who would deny this to-day are either
simpletons with feeble memories or else deliberate falsehood-mongers.

The War of 1914 was certainly not forced on the masses; it was even
desired by the whole people.

There was a desire to bring the general feeling of uncertainty to an end
once and for all. And it is only in the light of this fact that we can
understand how more than two million German men and youths voluntarily
joined the colours, ready to shed the last drop of their blood for the
cause.

For me these hours came as a deliverance from the distress that had
weighed upon me during the days of my youth. I am not ashamed to
acknowledge to-day that I was carried away by the enthusiasm of the
moment and that I sank down upon my knees and thanked Heaven out of the
fullness of my heart for the favour of having been permitted to live in
such a time.

The fight for freedom had broken out on an unparalleled scale in the
history of the world. From the moment that Fate took the helm in hand
the conviction grew among the mass of the people that now it was not a
question of deciding the destinies of Austria or Serbia but that the
very existence of the German nation itself was at stake.

At last, after many years of blindness, the people saw clearly into the
future. Therefore, almost immediately after the gigantic struggle had
begun, an excessive enthusiasm was replaced by a more earnest and more
fitting undertone, because the exaltation of the popular spirit was not
a mere passing frenzy. It was only too necessary that the gravity of the
situation should be recognized. At that time there was, generally
speaking, not the slightest presentiment or conception of how long the
war might last. People dreamed of the soldiers being home by Christmas
and that then they would resume their daily work in peace.

Whatever mankind desires, that it will hope for and believe in. The
overwhelming majority of the people had long since grown weary of the
perpetual insecurity in the general condition of public affairs. Hence
it was only natural that no one believed that the Austro-Serbian
conflict could be shelved. Therefore they looked forward to a radical
settlement of accounts. I also belonged to the millions that desired
this.

The moment the news of the Sarajevo outrage reached Munich two ideas
came into my mind: First, that war was absolutely inevitable and,
second, that the Habsburg State would now be forced to honour its
signature to the alliance. For what I had feared most was that one day
Germany herself, perhaps as a result of the Alliance, would become
involved in a conflict the first direct cause of which did not affect
Austria. In such a contingency, I feared that the Austrian State, for
domestic political reasons, would find itself unable to decide in favour
of its ally. But now this danger was removed. The old State was
compelled to fight, whether it wished to do so or not.

My own attitude towards the conflict was equally simple and clear. I
believed that it was not a case of Austria fighting to get satisfaction
from Serbia but rather a case of Germany fighting for her own
existence--the German nation for its own to-be-or-not-to-be, for its
freedom and for its future. The work of Bismarck must now be carried on.
Young Germany must show itself worthy of the blood shed by our fathers
on so many heroic fields of battle, from Weissenburg to Sedan and Paris.
And if this struggle should bring us victory our people will again rank
foremost among the great nations. Only then could the German Empire
assert itself as the mighty champion of peace, without the necessity of
restricting the daily bread of its children for the sake of maintaining
the peace.

As a boy and as a young man, I often longed for the occasion to prove
that my national enthusiasm was not mere vapouring. Hurrahing sometimes
seemed to me to be a kind of sinful indulgence, though I could not give
any justification for that feeling; for, after all, who has the right to
shout that triumphant word if he has not won the right to it there where
there is no play-acting and where the hand of the Goddess of Destiny
puts the truth and sincerity of nations and men through her inexorable
test? Just as millions of others, I felt a proud joy in being permitted
to go through this test. I had so often sung DEUTSCHLAND U"BER ALLES and
so often roared 'HEIL' that I now thought it was as a kind of
retro-active grace that I was granted the right of appearing before the
Court of Eternal Justice to testify to the truth of those sentiments.

One thing was clear to me from the very beginning, namely, that in the
event of war, which now seemed inevitable, my books would have to be
thrown aside forthwith. I also realized that my place would have to be
there where the inner voice of conscience called me.

I had left Austria principally for political reasons. What therefore
could be more rational than that I should put into practice the logical
consequences of my political opinions, now that the war had begun. I had
no desire to fight for the Habsburg cause, but I was prepared to die at
any time for my own kinsfolk and the Empire to which they really
belonged.

On August 3rd, 1914, I presented an urgent petition to His Majesty, King
Ludwig III, requesting to be allowed to serve in a Bavarian regiment. In
those days the Chancellery had its hands quite full and therefore I was
all the more pleased when I received the answer a day later, that my
request had been granted. I opened the document with trembling hands;
and no words of mine could now describe the satisfaction I felt on
reading that I was instructed to report to a Bavarian regiment. Within a
few days I was wearing that uniform which I was not to put oft again for
nearly six years.

For me, as for every German, the most memorable period of my life now
began. Face to face with that mighty struggle, all the past fell away
into oblivion. With a wistful pride I look back on those days,
especially because we are now approaching the tenth anniversary of that
memorable happening. I recall those early weeks of war when kind fortune
permitted me to take my place in that heroic struggle among the nations.

As the scene unfolds itself before my mind, it seems only like
yesterday. I see myself among my young comrades on our first parade
drill, and so on until at last the day came on which we were to leave
for the front.

In common with the others, I had one worry during those days. This was a
fear that we might arrive too late for the fighting at the front. Time
and again that thought disturbed me and every announcement of a
victorious engagement left a bitter taste, which increased as the news
of further victories arrived.

At long last the day came when we left Munich on war service. For the
first time in my life I saw the Rhine, as we journeyed westwards to
stand guard before that historic German river against its traditional
and grasping enemy. As the first soft rays of the morning sun broke
through the light mist and disclosed to us the Niederwald Statue, with
one accord the whole troop train broke into the strains of DIE WACHT AM
RHEIN. I then felt as if my heart could not contain its spirit.

And then followed a damp, cold night in Flanders. We marched in silence
throughout the night and as the morning sun came through the mist an
iron greeting suddenly burst above our heads. Shrapnel exploded in our
midst and spluttered in the damp ground. But before the smoke of the
explosion disappeared a wild 'Hurrah' was shouted from two hundred
throats, in response to this first greeting of Death. Then began the
whistling of bullets and the booming of cannons, the shouting and
singing of the combatants. With eyes straining feverishly, we pressed
forward, quicker and quicker, until we finally came to close-quarter
fighting, there beyond the beet-fields and the meadows. Soon the strains
of a song reached us from afar. Nearer and nearer, from company to
company, it came. And while Death began to make havoc in our ranks we
passed the song on to those beside us: DEUTSCHLAND, DEUTSCHLAND U"BER
ALLES, U"BER ALLES IN DER WELT.

After four days in the trenches we came back. Even our step was no
longer what it had been. Boys of seventeen looked now like grown men.
The rank and file of the List Regiment (Note 11) had not been properly
trained in the art of warfare, but they knew how to die like old soldiers.

[Note 11. The Second Infantry Bavarian Regiment, in which Hitler served
as a volunteer.]

That was the beginning. And thus we carried on from year to year. A
feeling of horror replaced the romantic fighting spirit. Enthusiasm
cooled down gradually and exuberant spirits were quelled by the fear of
the ever-present Death. A time came when there arose within each one of
us a conflict between the urge to self-preservation and the call of
duty. And I had to go through that conflict too. As Death sought its
prey everywhere and unrelentingly a nameless Something rebelled within
the weak body and tried to introduce itself under the name of Common
Sense; but in reality it was Fear, which had taken on this cloak in
order to impose itself on the individual. But the more the voice which
advised prudence increased its efforts and the more clear and persuasive
became its appeal, resistance became all the stronger; until finally the
internal strife was over and the call of duty was triumphant. Already in
the winter of 1915-16 I had come through that inner struggle. The will
had asserted its incontestable mastery. Whereas in the early days I went
into the fight with a cheer and a laugh, I was now habitually calm and
resolute. And that frame of mind endured. Fate might now put me through
the final test without my nerves or reason giving way. The young
volunteer had become an old soldier.

This same transformation took place throughout the whole army. Constant
fighting had aged and toughened it and hardened it, so that it stood
firm and dauntless against every assault.

Only now was it possible to judge that army. After two and three years
of continuous fighting, having been thrown into one battle after
another, standing up stoutly against superior numbers and superior
armament, suffering hunger and privation, the time had come when one
could assess the value of that singular fighting force.

For a thousand years to come nobody will dare to speak of heroism
without recalling the German Army of the World War. And then from the
dim past will emerge the immortal vision of those solid ranks of steel
helmets that never flinched and never faltered. And as long as Germans
live they will be proud to remember that these men were the sons of
their forefathers.

I was then a soldier and did not wish to meddle in politics, all the
more so because the time was inopportune. I still believe that the most
modest stable-boy of those days served his country better than the best
of, let us say, the 'parliamentary deputies'. My hatred for those
footlers was never greater than in those days when all decent men who
had anything to say said it point-blank in the enemy's face; or, failing
this, kept their mouths shut and did their duty elsewhere. I despised
those political fellows and if I had had my way I would have formed them
into a Labour Battalion and given them the opportunity of babbling
amongst themselves to their hearts' content, without offence or harm to
decent people.

In those days I cared nothing for politics; but I could not help forming
an opinion on certain manifestations which affected not only the whole
nation but also us soldiers in particular. There were two things which
caused me the greatest anxiety at that time and which I had come to
regard as detrimental to our interests.

Shortly after our first series of victories a certain section of the
Press already began to throw cold water, drip by drip, on the enthusiasm
of the public. At first this was not obvious to many people. It was done
under the mask of good intentions and a spirit of anxious care. The
public was told that big celebrations of victories were somewhat out of
place and were not worthy expressions of the spirit of a great nation.
The fortitude and valour of German soldiers were accepted facts which
did not necessarily call for outbursts of celebration. Furthermore, it
was asked, what would foreign opinion have to say about these
manifestations? Would not foreign opinion react more favourably to a
quiet and sober form of celebration rather than to all this wild
jubilation? Surely the time had come--so the Press declared--for us
Germans to remember that this war was not our work and that hence there
need be no feeling of shame in declaring our willingness to do our share
towards effecting an understanding among the nations. For this reason it
would not be wise to sully the radiant deeds of our army with unbecoming
jubilation; for the rest of the world would never understand this.
Furthermore, nothing is more appreciated than the modesty with which a
true hero quietly and unassumingly carries on and forgets. Such was the
gist of their warning.

Instead of catching these fellows by their long ears and dragging them
to some ditch and looping a cord around their necks, so that the
victorious enthusiasm of the nation should no longer offend the
aesthetic sensibilities of these knights of the pen, a general Press
campaign was now allowed to go on against what was called 'unbecoming'
and 'undignified' forms of victorious celebration.

No one seemed to have the faintest idea that when public enthusiasm is
once damped, nothing can enkindle it again, when the necessity arises.
This enthusiasm is an intoxication and must be kept up in that form.
Without the support of this enthusiastic spirit how would it be possible
to endure in a struggle which, according to human standards, made such
immense demands on the spiritual stamina of the nation?

I was only too well acquainted with the psychology of the broad masses
not to know that in such cases a magnaminous 'aestheticism' cannot fan
the fire which is needed to keep the iron hot. In my eyes it was even a
mistake not to have tried to raise the pitch of public enthusiasm still
higher. Therefore I could not at all understand why the contrary policy
was adopted, that is to say, the policy of damping the public spirit.

Another thing which irritated me was the manner in which Marxism was
regarded and accepted. I thought that all this proved how little they
knew about the Marxist plague. It was believed in all seriousness that
the abolition of party distinctions during the War had made Marxism a
mild and moderate thing.

But here there was no question of party. There was question of a
doctrine which was being expounded for the express purpose of leading
humanity to its destruction. The purport of this doctrine was not
understood because nothing was said about that side of the question in
our Jew-ridden universities and because our supercilious bureaucratic
officials did not think it worth while to read up a subject which had
not been prescribed in their university course. This mighty
revolutionary trend was going on beside them; but those 'intellectuals'
would not deign to give it their attention. That is why State enterprise
nearly always lags behind private enterprise. Of these gentry once can
truly say that their maxim is: What we don't know won't bother us. In
the August of 1914 the German worker was looked upon as an adherent of
Marxist socialism. That was a gross error. When those fateful hours
dawned the German worker shook off the poisonous clutches of that
plague; otherwise he would not have been so willing and ready to fight.
And people were stupid enough to imagine that Marxism had now become
'national', another apt illustration of the fact that those in authority
had never taken the trouble to study the real tenor of the Marxist
teaching. If they had done so, such foolish errors would not have been
committed.

Marxism, whose final objective was and is and will continue to be the
destruction of all non-Jewish national States, had to witness in those
days of July 1914 how the German working classes, which it had been
inveigling, were aroused by the national spirit and rapidly ranged
themselves on the side of the Fatherland. Within a few days the
deceptive smoke-screen of that infamous national betrayal had vanished
into thin air and the Jewish bosses suddenly found themselves alone and
deserted. It was as if not a vestige had been left of that folly and
madness with which the masses of the German people had been inoculated
for sixty years. That was indeed an evil day for the betrayers of German
Labour. The moment, however, that the leaders realized the danger which
threatened them they pulled the magic cap of deceit over their ears and,
without being identified, played the part of mimes in the national
reawakening.

The time seemed to have arrived for proceeding against the whole Jewish
gang of public pests. Then it was that action should have been taken
regardless of any consequent whining or protestation. At one stroke, in
the August of 1914, all the empty nonsense about international
solidarity was knocked out of the heads of the German working classes. A
few weeks later, instead of this stupid talk sounding in their ears,
they heard the noise of American-manufactured shrapnel bursting above
the heads of the marching columns, as a symbol of international
comradeship. Now that the German worker had rediscovered the road to
nationhood, it ought to have been the duty of any Government which had
the care of the people in its keeping, to take this opportunity of
mercilessly rooting out everything that was opposed to the national
spirit.

While the flower of the nation's manhood was dying at the front, there
was time enough at home at least to exterminate this vermin. But,
instead of doing so, His Majesty the Kaiser held out his hand to these
hoary criminals, thus assuring them his protection and allowing them to
regain their mental composure.

And so the viper could begin his work again. This time, however, more
carefully than before, but still more destructively. While honest people
dreamt of reconciliation these perjured criminals were making
preparations for a revolution.

Naturally I was distressed at the half-measures which were adopted at
that time; but I never thought it possible that the final consequences
could have been so disastrous?

But what should have been done then? Throw the ringleaders into gaol,
prosecute them and rid the nation of them? Uncompromising military
measures should have been adopted to root out the evil. Parties should
have been abolished and the Reichstag brought to its senses at the point
of the bayonet, if necessary. It would have been still better if the
Reichstag had been dissolved immediately. Just as the Republic to-day
dissolves the parties when it wants to, so in those days there was even
more justification for applying that measure, seeing that the very
existence of the nation was at stake. Of course this suggestion would
give rise to the question: Is it possible to eradicate ideas by force of
arms? Could a WELTANSCHAUUNG be attacked by means of physical force?

At that time I turned these questions over and over again in my mind. By
studying analogous cases, exemplified in history, particularly those
which had arisen from religious circumstances, I came to the following
fundamental conclusion:

Ideas and philosophical systems as well as movements grounded on a
definite spiritual foundation, whether true or not, can never be broken
by the use of force after a certain stage, except on one condition:
namely, that this use of force is in the service of a new idea or
WELTANSCHAUUNG which burns with a new flame.

The application of force alone, without moral support based on a
spiritual concept, can never bring about the destruction of an idea or
arrest the propagation of it, unless one is ready and able ruthlessly to
exterminate the last upholders of that idea even to a man, and also wipe
out any tradition which it may tend to leave behind. Now in the majority
of cases the result of such a course has been to exclude such a State,
either temporarily or for ever, from the comity of States that are of
political significance; but experience has also shown that such a
sanguinary method of extirpation arouses the better section of the
population under the persecuting power. As a matter of fact, every
persecution which has no spiritual motives to support it is morally
unjust and raises opposition among the best elements of the population;
so much so that these are driven more and more to champion the ideas
that are unjustly persecuted. With many individuals this arises from the
sheer spirit of opposition to every attempt at suppressing spiritual
things by brute force.

In this way the number of convinced adherents of the persecuted doctrine
increases as the persecution progresses. Hence the total destruction of
a new doctrine can be accomplished only by a vast plan of extermination;
but this, in the final analysis, means the loss of some of the best
blood in a nation or State. And that blood is then avenged, because such
an internal and total clean-up brings about the collapse of the nation's
strength. And such a procedure is always condemned to futility from the
very start if the attacked doctrine should happen to have spread beyond
a small circle.

That is why in this case, as with all other growths, the doctrine can be
exterminated in its earliest stages. As time goes on its powers of
resistance increase, until at the approach of age it gives way to
younger elements, but under another form and from other motives.

The fact remains that nearly all attempts to exterminate a doctrine,
without having some spiritual basis of attack against it, and also to
wipe out all the organizations it has created, have led in many cases to
the very opposite being achieved; and that for the following reasons:

When sheer force is used to combat the spread of a doctrine, then that
force must be employed systematically and persistently. This means that
the chances of success in the suppression of a doctrine lie only in the
persistent and uniform application of the methods chosen. The moment
hesitation is shown, and periods of tolerance alternate with the
application of force, the doctrine against which these measures are
directed will not only recover strength but every successive persecution
will bring to its support new adherents who have been shocked by the
oppressive methods employed. The old adherents will become more
embittered and their allegiance will thereby be strengthened. Therefore
when force is employed success is dependent on the consistent manner in
which it is used. This persistence, however, is nothing less than the
product of definite spiritual convictions. Every form of force that is
not supported by a spiritual backing will be always indecisive and
uncertain. Such a force lacks the stability that can be found only in a
WELTANSCHAUUNG which has devoted champions. Such a force is the
expression of the individual energies; therefore it is from time to time
dependent on the change of persons in whose hands it is employed and
also on their characters and capacities.

But there is something else to be said: Every WELTANSCHAUUNG, whether
religious or political--and it is sometimes difficult to say where the
one ends and the other begins--fights not so much for the negative
destruction of the opposing world of ideas as for the positive
realization of its own ideas. Thus its struggle lies in attack rather
than in defence. It has the advantage of knowing where its objective
lies, as this objective represents the realization of its own ideas.
Inversely, it is difficult to say when the negative aim for the
destruction of a hostile doctrine is reached and secured. For this
reason alone a WELTANSCHAUUNG which is of an aggressive character is
more definite in plan and more powerful and decisive in action than a
WELTANSCHAUUNG which takes up a merely defensive attitude. If force be
used to combat a spiritual power, that force remains a defensive measure
only so long as the wielders of it are not the standard-bearers and
apostles of a new spiritual doctrine.

To sum up, the following must be borne in mind: That every attempt to
combat a WELTANSCHAUUNG by means of force will turn out futile in the
end if the struggle fails to take the form of an offensive for the
establishment of an entirely new spiritual order of' things. It is only
in the struggle between two Weltan-schauungen that physical force,
consistently and ruthlessly applied, will eventually turn the scales in
its own favour. It was here that the fight against Marxism had hitherto
failed.

This was also the reason why Bismarck's anti-socialist legislation
failed and was bound to fail in the long run, despite everything. It
lacked the basis of a new WELTANSCHAUUNG for whose development and
extension the struggle might have been taken up. To say that the serving
up of drivel about a so-called 'State-Authority' or 'Law-and-Order' was
an adequate foundation for the spiritual driving force in a
life-or-death struggle is only what one would expect to hear from the
wiseacres in high official positions.

It was because there were no adequate spiritual motives back of this
offensive that Bismarck was compelled to hand over the administration of
his socialist legislative measures to the judgment and approval of those
circles which were themselves the product of the Marxist teaching. Thus
a very ludicrous state of affairs prevailed when the Iron Chancellor
surrendered the fate of his struggle against Marxism to the goodwill of
the bourgeois democracy. He left the goat to take care of the garden.
But this was only the necessary result of the failure to find a
fundamentally new WELTANSCHAUUNG which would attract devoted champions
to its cause and could be established on the ground from which Marxism
had been driven out. And thus the result of the Bismarckian campaign was
deplorable.

During the World War, or at the beginning of it, were the conditions any
different? Unfortunately, they were not.

The more I then pondered over the necessity for a change in the attitude
of the executive government towards Social-Democracy, as the
incorporation of contemporary Marxism, the more I realized the want of a
practical substitute for this doctrine. Supposing Social-Democracy were
overthrown, what had one to offer the masses in its stead? Not a single
movement existed which promised any success in attracting vast numbers
of workers who would be now more or less without leaders, and holding
these workers in its train. It is nonsensical to imagine that the
international fanatic who has just severed his connection with a class
party would forthwith join a bourgeois party, or, in other words,
another class organization. For however unsatisfactory these various
organizations may appear to be, it cannot be denied that bourgeois
politicians look on the distinction between classes as a very important
factor in social life, provided it does not turn out politically
disadvantageous to them. If they deny this fact they show themselves not
only impudent but also mendacious.

Generally speaking, one should guard against considering the broad
masses more stupid than they really are. In political matters it
frequently happens that feeling judges more correctly than intellect.
But the opinion that this feeling on the part of the masses is
sufficient proof of their stupid international attitude can be
immediately and definitely refuted by the simple fact that pacifist
democracy is no less fatuous, though it draws its supporters almost
exclusively from bourgeois circles. As long as millions of citizens
daily gulp down what the social-democratic Press tells them, it ill
becomes the 'Masters' to joke at the expense of the 'Comrades'; for in
the long run they all swallow the same hash, even though it be dished up
with different spices. In both cases the cook is one and the same--the
Jew.

One should be careful about contradicting established facts. It is an
undeniable fact that the class question has nothing to do with questions
concerning ideals, though that dope is administered at election time.
Class arrogance among a large section of our people, as well as a
prevailing tendency to look down on the manual labourer, are obvious
facts and not the fancies of some day-dreamer. Nevertheless it only
illustrates the mentality of our so-called intellectual circles, that
they have not yet grasped the fact that circumstances which are
incapable of preventing the growth of such a plague as Marxism are
certainly not capable of restoring what has been lost.

The bourgeois' parties--a name coined by themselves--will never again be
able to win over and hold the proletarian masses in their train. That is
because two worlds stand opposed to one another here, in part naturally
and in part artificially divided. These two camps have one leading
thought, and that is that they must fight one another. But in such a
fight the younger will come off victorious; and that is Marxism.

In 1914 a fight against Social-Democracy was indeed quite conceivable.
But the lack of any practical substitute made it doubtful how long the
fight could be kept up. In this respect there was a gaping void.

Long before the War I was of the same opinion and that was the reason
why I could not decide to join any of the parties then existing. During
the course of the World War my conviction was still further confirmed by
the manifest impossibility of fighting Social-Democracy in anything like
a thorough way: because for that purpose there should have been a
movement that was something more than a mere 'parliamentary' party, and
there was none such.

I frequently discussed that want with my intimate comrades. And it was
then that I first conceived the idea of taking up political work later
on. As I have often assured my friends, it was just this that induced me
to become active on the public hustings after the War, in addition to my
professional work. And I am sure that this decision was arrived at after
much earnest thought.




CHAPTER VI



WAR PROPAGANDA


In watching the course of political events I was always struck by the
active part which propaganda played in them. I saw that it was an
instrument, which the Marxist Socialists knew how to handle in a
masterly way and how to put it to practical uses. Thus I soon came to
realize that the right use of propaganda was an art in itself and that
this art was practically unknown to our bourgeois parties. The
Christian-Socialist Party alone, especially in Lueger's time, showed a
certain efficiency in the employment of this instrument and owed much of
their success to it.

It was during the War, however, that we had the best chance of
estimating the tremendous results which could be obtained by a
propagandist system properly carried out. Here again, unfortunately,
everything was left to the other side, the work done on our side being
worse than insignificant. It was the total failure of the whole German
system of information--a failure which was perfectly obvious to every
soldier--that urged me to consider the problem of propaganda in a
comprehensive way. I had ample opportunity to learn a practical lesson
in this matter; for unfortunately it was only too well taught us by the
enemy. The lack on our side was exploited by the enemy in such an
efficient manner that one could say it showed itself as a real work of
genius. In that propaganda carried on by the enemy I found admirable
sources of instruction. The lesson to be learned from this had
unfortunately no attraction for the geniuses on our own side. They were
simply above all such things, too clever to accept any teaching. Anyhow
they did not honestly wish to learn anything.

Had we any propaganda at all? Alas, I can reply only in the negative.
All that was undertaken in this direction was so utterly inadequate and
misconceived from the very beginning that not only did it prove useless
but at times harmful. In substance it was insufficient. Psychologically
it was all wrong. Anybody who had carefully investigated the German
propaganda must have formed that judgment of it. Our people did not seem
to be clear even about the primary question itself: Whether propaganda
is a means or an end?

Propaganda is a means and must, therefore, be judged in relation to the
end it is intended to serve. It must be organized in such a way as to be
capable of attaining its objective. And, as it is quite clear that the
importance of the objective may vary from the standpoint of general
necessity, the essential internal character of the propaganda must vary
accordingly. The cause for which we fought during the War was the
noblest and highest that man could strive for. We were fighting for the
freedom and independence of our country, for the security of our future
welfare and the honour of the nation. Despite all views to the contrary,
this honour does actually exist, or rather it will have to exist; for a
nation without honour will sooner or later lose its freedom and
independence. This is in accordance with the ruling of a higher justice,
for a generation of poltroons is not entitled to freedom. He who would
be a slave cannot have honour; for such honour would soon become an
object of general scorn.

Germany was waging war for its very existence. The purpose of its war
propaganda should have been to strengthen the fighting spirit in that
struggle and help it to victory.

But when nations are fighting for their existence on this earth, when
the question of 'to be or not to be' has to be answered, then all humane
and aesthetic considerations must be set aside; for these ideals do not
exist of themselves somewhere in the air but are the product of man's
creative imagination and disappear when he disappears. Nature knows
nothing of them. Moreover, they are characteristic of only a small
number of nations, or rather of races, and their value depends on the
measure in which they spring from the racial feeling of the latter.
Humane and aesthetic ideals will disappear from the inhabited earth when
those races disappear which are the creators and standard-bearers of
them.

All such ideals are only of secondary importance when a nation is
struggling for its existence. They must be prevented from entering into
the struggle the moment they threaten to weaken the stamina of the
nation that is waging war. That is always the only visible effect
whereby their place in the struggle is to be judged.

In regard to the part played by humane feeling, Moltke stated that in
time of war the essential thing is to get a decision as quickly as
possible and that the most ruthless methods of fighting are at the same
time the most humane. When people attempt to answer this reasoning by
highfalutin talk about aesthetics, etc., only one answer can be given. It
is that the vital questions involved in the struggle of a nation for its
existence must not be subordinated to any aesthetic considerations. The
yoke of slavery is and always will remain the most unpleasant experience
that mankind can endure. Do the Schwabing (Note 12) decadents look upon
Germany's lot to-day as 'aesthetic'? Of course, one doesn't discuss such
a question with the Jews, because they are the modern inventors of this
cultural perfume. Their very existence is an incarnate denial of the
beauty of God's image in His creation.

[Note 12. Schwabing is the artistic quarter in Munich where artists have
their studios and litterateurs, especially of the Bohemian class,
foregather.]

Since these ideas of what is beautiful and humane have no place in
warfare, they are not to be used as standards of war propaganda.

During the War, propaganda was a means to an end. And this end was the
struggle for existence of the German nation. Propaganda, therefore,
should have been regarded from the standpoint of its utility for that
purpose. The most cruel weapons were then the most humane, provided they
helped towards a speedier decision; and only those methods were good and
beautiful which helped towards securing the dignity and freedom of the
nation. Such was the only possible attitude to adopt towards war
propaganda in the life-or-death struggle.

If those in what are called positions of authority had realized this
there would have been no uncertainty about the form and employment of
war propaganda as a weapon; for it is nothing but a weapon, and indeed a
most terrifying weapon in the hands of those who know how to use it.

The second question of decisive importance is this: To whom should
propaganda be made to appeal? To the educated intellectual classes? Or
to the less intellectual?

Propaganda must always address itself to the broad masses of the people.
For the intellectual classes, or what are called the intellectual
classes to-day, propaganda is not suited, but only scientific
exposition. Propaganda has as little to do with science as an
advertisement poster has to do with art, as far as concerns the form in
which it presents its message. The art of the advertisement poster
consists in the ability of the designer to attract the attention of the
crowd through the form and colours he chooses. The advertisement poster
announcing an exhibition of art has no other aim than to convince the
public of the importance of the exhibition. The better it does that, the
better is the art of the poster as such. Being meant accordingly to
impress upon the public the meaning of the exposition, the poster can
never take the place of the artistic objects displayed in the exposition
hall. They are something entirely different. Therefore. those who wish
to study the artistic display must study something that is quite
different from the poster; indeed for that purpose a mere wandering
through the exhibition galleries is of no use. The student of art must
carefully and thoroughly study each exhibit in order slowly to form a
judicious opinion about it.

The situation is the same in regard to what we understand by the word,
propaganda. The purpose of propaganda is not the personal instruction of
the individual, but rather to attract public attention to certain
things, the importance of which can be brought home to the masses only
by this means.

Here the art of propaganda consists in putting a matter so clearly and
forcibly before the minds of the people as to create a general
conviction regarding the reality of a certain fact, the necessity of
certain things and the just character of something that is essential.
But as this art is not an end in itself and because its purpose must be
exactly that of the advertisement poster, to attract the attention of
the masses and not by any means to dispense individual instructions to
those who already have an educated opinion on things or who wish to form
such an opinion on grounds of objective study--because that is not the
purpose of propaganda, it must appeal to the feelings of the public
rather than to their reasoning powers.

All propaganda must be presented in a popular form and must fix its
intellectual level so as not to be above the heads of the least
intellectual of those to whom it is directed. Thus its purely
intellectual level will have to be that of the lowest mental common
denominator among the public it is desired to reach. When there is
question of bringing a whole nation within the circle of its influence,
as happens in the case of war propaganda, then too much attention cannot
be paid to the necessity of avoiding a high level, which presupposes a
relatively high degree of intelligence among the public.

The more modest the scientific tenor of this propaganda and the more it
is addressed exclusively to public sentiment, the more decisive will be
its success. This is the best test of the value of a propaganda, and not
the approbation of a small group of intellectuals or artistic people.

The art of propaganda consists precisely in being able to awaken the
imagination of the public through an appeal to their feelings, in
finding the appropriate psychological form that will arrest the
attention and appeal to the hearts of the national masses. That this is
not understood by those among us whose wits are supposed to have been
sharpened to the highest pitch is only another proof of their vanity or
mental inertia.

Once we have understood how necessary it is to concentrate the
persuasive forces of propaganda on the broad masses of the people, the
following lessons result therefrom:

That it is a mistake to organize the direct propaganda as if it were a
manifold system of scientific instruction.

The receptive powers of the masses are very restricted, and their
understanding is feeble. On the other hand, they quickly forget. Such
being the case, all effective propaganda must be confined to a few bare
essentials and those must be expressed as far as possible in stereotyped
formulas. These slogans should be persistently repeated until the very
last individual has come to grasp the idea that has been put forward. If
this principle be forgotten and if an attempt be made to be abstract and
general, the propaganda will turn out ineffective; for the public will
not be able to digest or retain what is offered to them in this way.
Therefore, the greater the scope of the message that has to be
presented, the more necessary it is for the propaganda to discover that
plan of action which is psychologically the most efficient.

It was, for example, a fundamental mistake to ridicule the worth of the
enemy as the Austrian and German comic papers made a chief point of
doing in their propaganda. The very principle here is a mistaken one;
for, when they came face to face with the enemy, our soldiers had quite
a different impression. Therefore, the mistake had disastrous results.
Once the German soldier realised what a tough enemy he had to fight he
felt that he had been deceived by the manufacturers of the information
which had been given him. Therefore, instead of strengthening and
stimulating his fighting spirit, this information had quite the contrary
effect. Finally he lost heart.

On the other hand, British and American war propaganda was
psychologically efficient. By picturing the Germans to their own people
as Barbarians and Huns, they were preparing their soldiers for the
horrors of war and safeguarding them against illusions. The most
terrific weapons which those soldiers encountered in the field merely
confirmed the information that they had already received and their
belief in the truth of the assertions made by their respective
governments was accordingly reinforced. Thus their rage and hatred
against the infamous foe was increased. The terrible havoc caused by the
German weapons of war was only another illustration of the Hunnish
brutality of those barbarians; whereas on the side of the Entente no
time was left the soldiers to meditate on the similar havoc which their
own weapons were capable of. Thus the British soldier was never allowed
to feel that the information which he received at home was untrue.
Unfortunately the opposite was the case with the Germans, who finally
wound up by rejecting everything from home as pure swindle and humbug.
This result was made possible because at home they thought that the work
of propaganda could be entrusted to the first ass that came along,
braying of his own special talents, and they had no conception of the
fact that propaganda demands the most skilled brains that can be found.

Thus the German war propaganda afforded us an incomparable example of
how the work of 'enlightenment' should not be done and how such an
example was the result of an entire failure to take any psychological
considerations whatsoever into account.

From the enemy, however, a fund of valuable knowledge could be gained by
those who kept their eyes open, whose powers of perception had not yet
become sclerotic, and who during four-and-a-half years had to experience
the perpetual flood of enemy propaganda.

The worst of all was that our people did not understand the very first
condition which has to be fulfilled in every kind of propaganda; namely,
a systematically one-sided attitude towards every problem that has to be
dealt with. In this regard so many errors were committed, even from the
very beginning of the war, that it was justifiable to doubt whether so
much folly could be attributed solely to the stupidity of people in
higher quarters.

What, for example, should we say of a poster which purported to
advertise some new brand of soap by insisting on the excellent qualities
of the competitive brands? We should naturally shake our heads. And it
ought to be just the same in a similar kind of political advertisement.
The aim of propaganda is not to try to pass judgment on conflicting
rights, giving each its due, but exclusively to emphasize the right
which we are asserting. Propaganda must not investigate the truth
objectively and, in so far as it is favourable to the other side,
present it according to the theoretical rules of justice; yet it must
present only that aspect of the truth which is favourable to its own
side.

It was a fundamental mistake to discuss the question of who was
responsible for the outbreak of the war and declare that the sole
responsibility could not be attributed to Germany. The sole
responsibility should have been laid on the shoulders of the enemy,
without any discussion whatsoever.

And what was the consequence of these half-measures? The broad masses of
the people are not made up of diplomats or professors of public
jurisprudence nor simply of persons who are able to form reasoned
judgment in given cases, but a vacillating crowd of human children who
are constantly wavering between one idea and another. As soon as our own
propaganda made the slightest suggestion that the enemy had a certain
amount of justice on his side, then we laid down the basis on which the
justice of our own cause could be questioned. The masses are not in a
position to discern where the enemy's fault ends and where our own
begins. In such a case they become hesitant and distrustful, especially
when the enemy does not make the same mistake but heaps all the blame on
his adversary. Could there be any clearer proof of this than the fact
that finally our own people believed what was said by the enemy's
propaganda, which was uniform and consistent in its assertions, rather
than what our own propaganda said? And that, of course, was increased by
the mania for objectivity which addicts our people. Everybody began to
be careful about doing an injustice to the enemy, even at the cost of
seriously injuring, and even ruining his own people and State.

Naturally the masses were not conscious of the fact that those in
authority had failed to study the subject from this angle.

The great majority of a nation is so feminine in its character and
outlook that its thought and conduct are ruled by sentiment rather than
by sober reasoning. This sentiment, however, is not complex, but simple
and consistent. It is not highly differentiated, but has only the
negative and positive notions of love and hatred, right and wrong, truth
and falsehood. Its notions are never partly this and partly that.
English propaganda especially understood this in a marvellous way and
put what they understood into practice. They allowed no half-measures
which might have given rise to some doubt.

Proof of how brilliantly they understood that the feeling of the masses
is something primitive was shown in their policy of publishing tales of
horror and outrages which fitted in with the real horrors of the time,
thereby cleverly and ruthlessly preparing the ground for moral
solidarity at the front, even in times of great defeats. Further, the
way in which they pilloried the German enemy as solely responsible for
the war--which was a brutal and absolute falsehood--and the way in which
they proclaimed his guilt was excellently calculated to reach the
masses, realizing that these are always extremist in their feelings. And
thus it was that this atrocious lie was positively believed.

The effectiveness of this kind of propaganda is well illustrated by the
fact that after four-and-a-half years, not only was the enemy still
carrying on his propagandist work, but it was already undermining the
stamina of our people at home.

That our propaganda did not achieve similar results is not to be
wondered at, because it had the germs of inefficiency lodged in its very
being by reason of its ambiguity. And because of the very nature of its
content one could not expect it to make the necessary impression on the
masses. Only our feckless 'statesmen' could have imagined that on
pacifists slops of such a kind the enthusiasm could be nourished which
is necessary to enkindle that spirit which leads men to die for their
country.

And so this product of ours was not only worthless but detrimental.

No matter what an amount of talent employed in the organization of
propaganda, it will have no result if due account is not taken of these
fundamental principles. Propaganda must be limited to a few simple
themes and these must be represented again and again. Here, as in
innumerable other cases, perseverance is the first and most important
condition of success.

Particularly in the field of propaganda, placid aesthetes and blase
intellectuals should never be allowed to take the lead. The former would
readily transform the impressive character of real propaganda into
something suitable only for literary tea parties. As to the second class
of people, one must always beware of this pest; for, in consequence of
their insensibility to normal impressions, they are constantly seeking
new excitements.

Such people grow sick and tired of everything. They always long for
change and will always be incapable of putting themselves in the
position of picturing the wants of their less callous fellow-creatures
in their immediate neighbourhood, let alone trying to understand them.
The blase intellectuals are always the first to criticize propaganda, or
rather its message, because this appears to them to be outmoded and
trivial. They are always looking for something new, always yearning for
change; and thus they become the mortal enemies of every effort that may
be made to influence the masses in an effective way. The moment the
organization and message of a propagandist movement begins to be
orientated according to their tastes it becomes incoherent and
scattered.

It is not the purpose of propaganda to create a series of alterations in
sentiment with a view to pleasing these blase gentry. Its chief function
is to convince the masses, whose slowness of understanding needs to be
given time in order that they may absorb information; and only constant
repetition will finally succeed in imprinting an idea on the memory of
the crowd.

Every change that is made in the subject of a propagandist message must
always emphasize the same conclusion. The leading slogan must of course
be illustrated in many ways and from several angles, but in the end one
must always return to the assertion of the same formula. In this way
alone can propaganda be consistent and dynamic in its effects.

Only by following these general lines and sticking to them steadfastly,
with uniform and concise emphasis, can final success be reached. Then
one will be rewarded by the surprising and almost incredible results
that such a persistent policy secures.

The success of any advertisement, whether of a business or political
nature, depends on the consistency and perseverance with which it is
employed.

In this respect also the propaganda organized by our enemies set us an
excellent example. It confined itself to a few themes, which were meant
exclusively for mass consumption, and it repeated these themes with
untiring perseverance. Once these fundamental themes and the manner of
placing them before the world were recognized as effective, they adhered
to them without the slightest alteration for the whole duration of the
War. At first all of it appeared to be idiotic in its impudent
assertiveness. Later on it was looked upon as disturbing, but finally it
was believed.

But in England they came to understand something further: namely, that
the possibility of success in the use of this spiritual weapon consists
in the mass employment of it, and that when employed in this way it
brings full returns for the large expenses incurred.

In England propaganda was regarded as a weapon of the first order,
whereas with us it represented the last hope of a livelihood for our
unemployed politicians and a snug job for shirkers of the modest hero
type.

Taken all in all, its results were negative.




CHAPTER VII



THE REVOLUTION


In 1915 the enemy started his propaganda among our soldiers. From 1916
onwards it steadily became more intensive, and at the beginning of 1918
it had swollen into a storm flood. One could now judge the effects of
this proselytizing movement step by step. Gradually our soldiers began
to think just in the way the enemy wished them to think. On the German
side there was no counter-propaganda.

At that time the army authorities, under our able and resolute
Commander, were willing and ready to take up the fight in the propaganda
domain also, but unfortunately they did not have the necessary means to
carry that intention into effect. Moreover, the army authorities would
have made a psychological mistake had they undertaken this task of
mental training. To be efficacious it had come from the home front. For
only thus could it be successful among men who for nearly four years now
had been performing immortal deeds of heroism and undergoing all sorts
of privations for the sake of that home. But what were the people at
home doing? Was their failure to act merely due to unintelligence or bad
faith?

In the midsummer of 1918, after the evacuation of the southern bank of
the hearne, the German Press adopted a policy which was so woefully
inopportune, and even criminally stupid, that I used to ask myself a
question which made me more and more furious day after day: Is it really
true that we have nobody who will dare to put an end to this process of
spiritual sabotage which is being carried on among our heroic troops?

What happened in France during those days of 1914, when our armies
invaded that country and were marching in triumph from one victory to
another? What happened in Italy when their armies collapsed on the
Isonzo front? What happened in France again during the spring of 1918,
when German divisions took the main French positions by storm and heavy
long-distance artillery bombarded Paris?

How they whipped up the flagging courage of those troops who were
retreating and fanned the fires of national enthusiasm among them! How
their propaganda and their marvellous aptitude in the exercise of
mass-influence reawakened the fighting spirit in that broken front and
hammered into the heads of the soldiers a, firm belief in final victory!

Meanwhile, what were our people doing in this sphere? Nothing, or even
worse than nothing. Again and again I used to become enraged and
indignant as I read the latest papers and realized the nature of the
mass-murder they were committing: through their influence on the minds
of the people and the soldiers. More than once I was tormented by the
thought that if Providence had put the conduct of German propaganda into
my hands, instead of into the hands of those incompetent and even
criminal ignoramuses and weaklings, the outcome of the struggle might
have been different.

During those months I felt for the first time that Fate was dealing
adversely with me in keeping me on the fighting front and in a position
where any chance bullet from some nigger or other might finish me,
whereas I could have done the Fatherland a real service in another
sphere. For I was then presumptuous enough to believe that I would have
been successful in managing the propaganda business.

But I was a being without a name, one among eight millions. Hence it was
better for me to keep my mouth shut and do my duty as well as I could in
the position to which I had been assigned.

In the summer of 1915 the first enemy leaflets were dropped on our
trenches. They all told more or less the same story, with some
variations in the form of it. The story was that distress was steadily
on the increase in Germany; that the War would last indefinitely; that
the prospect of victory for us was becoming fainter day after day; that
the people at home were yearning for peace, but that 'Militarism' and
the 'Kaiser' would not permit it; that the world--which knew this very
well--was not waging war against the German people but only against the
man who was exclusively responsible, the Kaiser; that until this enemy
of world-peace was removed there could be no end to the conflict; but
that when the War was over the liberal and democratic nations would
receive the Germans as colleagues in the League for World Peace. This
would be done the moment 'Prussian Militarism' had been finally
destroyed.

To illustrate and substantiate all these statements, the leaflets very
often contained 'Letters from Home', the contents of which appeared to
confirm the enemy's propagandist message.

Generally speaking, we only laughed at all these efforts. The leaflets
were read, sent to base headquarters, then forgotten until a favourable
wind once again blew a fresh contingent into the trenches. These were
mostly dropped from aeroplanes which were used specially for that
purpose.

One feature of this propaganda was very striking. It was that in
sections where Bavarian troops were stationed every effort was made by
the enemy propagandists to stir up feeling against the Prussians,
assuring the soldiers that Prussia and Prussia alone was the guilty
party who was responsible for bringing on and continuing the War, and
that there was no hostility whatsoever towards the Bavarians; but that
there could be no possibility of coming to their assistance so long as
they continued to serve Prussian interests and helped to pull the
Prussian chestnuts out of the fire.

This persistent propaganda began to have a real influence on our
soldiers in 1915. The feeling against Prussia grew quite noticeable
among the Bavarian troops, but those in authority did nothing to
counteract it. This was something more than a mere crime of omission;
for sooner or later not only the Prussians were bound to have to atone
severely for it but the whole German nation and consequently the
Bavarians themselves also.

In this direction the enemy propaganda began to achieve undoubted
success from 1916 onwards.

In a similar way letters coming directly from home had long since been
exercising their effect. There was now no further necessity for the
enemy to broadcast such letters in leaflet form. And also against this
influence from home nothing was done except a few supremely stupid
'warnings' uttered by the executive government. The whole front was
drenched in this poison which thoughtless women at home sent out,
without suspecting for a moment that the enemy's chances of final
victory were thus strengthened or that the sufferings of their own men
at the front were thus being prolonged and rendered more severe. These
stupid letters written by German women eventually cost the lives of
hundreds of thousands of our men.

Thus in 1916 several distressing phenomena were already manifest. The
whole front was complaining and grousing, discontented over many things
and often justifiably so. While they were hungry and yet patient, and
their relatives at home were in distress, in other quarters there was
feasting and revelry. Yes; even on the front itself everything was not
as it ought to have been in this regard.

Even in the early stages of the war the soldiers were sometimes prone to
complain; but such criticism was confined to 'internal affairs'. The man
who at one moment groused and grumbled ceased his murmur after a few
moments and went about his duty silently, as if everything were in
order. The company which had given signs of discontent a moment earlier
hung on now to its bit of trench, defending it tooth and nail, as if
Germany's fate depended on these few hundred yards of mud and
shell-holes. The glorious old army was still at its post. A sudden
change in my own fortunes soon placed me in a position where I had
first-hand experience of the contrast between this old army and the home
front. At the end of September 1916 my division was sent into the Battle
of the Somme. For us this was the first of a series of heavy
engagements, and the impression created was that of a veritable inferno,
rather than war. Through weeks of incessant artillery bombardment we
stood firm, at times ceding a little ground but then taking it back
again, and never giving way. On October 7th, 1916, I was wounded but had
the luck of being able to get back to our lines and was then ordered to
be sent by ambulance train to Germany.

Two years had passed since I had left home, an almost endless period in
such circumstances. I could hardly imagine what Germans looked like
without uniforms. In the clearing hospital at Hermies I was startled
when I suddenly heard the voice of a German woman who was acting as
nursing sister and talking with one of the wounded men lying near me.
Two years! And then this voice for the first time!

The nearer our ambulance train approached the German frontier the more
restless each one of us became. En route we recognised all these places
through which we passed two years before as young volunteers--Brussels,
Louvain, Lie`ge--and finally we thought we recognized the first German
homestead, with its familiar high gables and picturesque
window-shutters. Home!

What a change! From the mud of the Somme battlefields to the spotless
white beds in this wonderful building. One hesitated at first before
entering them. It was only by slow stages that one could grow accustomed
to this new world again. But unfortunately there were certain other
aspects also in which this new world was different.

The spirit of the army at the front appeared to be out of place here.
For the first time I encountered something which up to then was unknown
at the front: namely, boasting of one's own cowardice. For, though we
certainly heard complaining and grousing at the front, this was never in
the spirit of any agitation to insubordination and certainly not an
attempt to glorify one's fear. No; there at the front a coward was a
coward and nothing else, And the contempt which his weakness aroused in
the others was quite general, just as the real hero was admired all
round. But here in hospital the spirit was quite different in some
respects. Loudmouthed agitators were busy here in heaping ridicule on
the good soldier and painting the weak-kneed poltroon in glorious
colours. A couple of miserable human specimens were the ringleaders in
this process of defamation. One of them boasted of having intentionally
injured his hand in barbed-wire entanglements in order to get sent to
hospital. Although his wound was only a slight one, it appeared that he
had been here for a very long time and would be here interminably. Some
arrangement for him seemed to be worked by some sort of swindle, just as
he got sent here in the ambulance train through a swindle. This
pestilential specimen actually had the audacity to parade his knavery as
the manifestation of a courage which was superior to that of the brave
soldier who dies a hero's death. There were many who heard this talk in
silence; but there were others who expressed their assent to what the
fellow said.

Personally I was disgusted at the thought that a seditious agitator of
this kind should be allowed to remain in such an institution. What could
be done? The hospital authorities here must have known who and what he
was; and actually they did know. But still they did nothing about it.

As soon as I was able to walk once again I obtained leave to visit
Berlin.

Bitter want was in evidence everywhere. The metropolis, with its teeming
millions, was suffering from hunger. The talk that was current in the
various places of refreshment and hospices visited by the soldiers was
much the same as that in our hospital. The impression given was that
these agitators purposely singled out such places in order to spread
their views.

But in Munich conditions were far worse. After my discharge from
hospital, I was sent to a reserve battalion there. I felt as in some
strange town. Anger, discontent, complaints met one's ears wherever one
went. To a certain extent this was due to the infinitely maladroit
manner in which the soldiers who had returned from the front were
treated by the non-commissioned officers who had never seen a day's
active service and who on that account were partly incapable of adopting
the proper attitude towards the old soldiers. Naturally those old
soldiers displayed certain characteristics which had been developed from
the experiences in the trenches. The officers of the reserve units could
not understand these peculiarities, whereas the officer home from active
service was at least in a position to understand them for himself. As a
result he received more respect from the men than officers at the home
headquarters. But, apart from all this, the general spirit was
deplorable. The art of shirking was looked upon as almost a proof of
higher intelligence, and devotion to duty was considered a sign of
weakness or bigotry. Government offices were staffed by Jews. Almost
every clerk was a Jew and every Jew was a clerk. I was amazed at this
multitude of combatants who belonged to the chosen people and could not
help comparing it with their slender numbers in the fighting lines.

In the business world the situation was even worse. Here the Jews had
actually become 'indispensable'. Like leeches, they were slowly sucking
the blood from the pores of the national body. By means of newly floated
War Companies an instrument had been discovered whereby all national
trade was throttled so that no business could be carried on freely

Special emphasis was laid on the necessity for unhampered
centralization. Hence as early as 1916-17 practically all production was
under the control of Jewish finance.

But against whom was the anger of the people directed? It was then that
I already saw the fateful day approaching which must finally bring the
DEBACLE, unless timely preventive measures were taken.

While Jewry was busy despoiling the nation and tightening the screws of
its despotism, the work of inciting the people against the Prussians
increased. And just as nothing was done at the front to put a stop to
the venomous propaganda, so here at home no official steps were taken
against it. Nobody seemed capable of understanding that the collapse of
Prussia could never bring about the rise of Bavaria. On the contrary,
the collapse of the one must necessarily drag the other down with it.

This kind of behaviour affected me very deeply. In it I could see only a
clever Jewish trick for diverting public attention from themselves to
others. While Prussians and Bavarians were squabbling, the Jews were
taking away the sustenance of both from under their very noses. While
Prussians were being abused in Bavaria the Jews organized the revolution
and with one stroke smashed both Prussia and Bavaria.

I could not tolerate this execrable squabbling among people of the same
German stock and preferred to be at the front once again. Therefore,
just after my arrival in Munich I reported myself for service again. At
the beginning of March 1917 I rejoined my old regiment at the front.

Towards the end of 1917 it seemed as if we had got over the worst phases
of moral depression at the front. After the Russian collapse the whole
army recovered its courage and hope, and all were gradually becoming
more and more convinced that the struggle would end in our favour. We
could sing once again. The ravens were ceasing to croak. Faith in the
future of the Fatherland was once more in the ascendant.

The Italian collapse in the autumn of 1917 had a wonderful effect; for
this victory proved that it was possible to break through another front
besides the Russian. This inspiring thought now became dominant in the
minds of millions at the front and encouraged them to look forward with
confidence to the spring of 1918. It was quite obvious that the enemy
was in a state of depression. During this winter the front was somewhat
quieter than usual. But that was the calm before the storm.

Just when preparations were being made to launch a final offensive which
would bring this seemingly eternal struggle to an end, while endless
columns of transports were bringing men and munitions to the front, and
while the men were being trained for that final onslaught, then it was
that the greatest act of treachery during the whole War was accomplished
in Germany.

Germany must not win the War. At that moment when victory seemed ready
to alight on the German standards, a conspiracy was arranged for the
purpose of striking at the heart of the German spring offensive with one
blow from the rear and thus making victory impossible. A general strike
in the munition factories was organized.

If this conspiracy could achieve its purpose the German front would have
collapsed and the wishes of the VORWA"RTS (the organ of the
Social-Democratic Party) that this time victory should not take the side
of the German banners, would have been fulfilled. For want of munitions
the front would be broken through within a few weeks, the offensive
would be effectively stopped and the Entente saved. Then International
Finance would assume control over Germany and the internal objective of
the Marxist national betrayal would be achieved. That objective was the
destruction of the national economic system and the establishment of
international capitalistic domination in its stead. And this goal has
really been reached, thanks to the stupid credulity of the one side and
the unspeakable treachery of the other.

The munition strike, however, did not bring the final success that had
been hoped for: namely, to starve the front of ammunition. It lasted too
short a time for the lack of ammunitions as such to bring disaster to
the army, as was originally planned. But the moral damage was much more
terrible.

In the first place. what was the army fighting for if the people at home
did not wish it to be victorious? For whom then were these enormous
sacrifices and privations being made and endured? Must the soldiers
fight for victory while the home front goes on strike against it?

In the second place, what effect did this move have on the enemy?

In the winter of 1917-18 dark clouds hovered in the firmament of the
Entente. For nearly four years onslaught after onslaught has been made
against the German giant, but they failed to bring him to the ground. He
had to keep them at bay with one arm that held the defensive shield
because his other arm had to be free to wield the sword against his
enemies, now in the East and now in the South. But at last these enemies
were overcome and his rear was now free for the conflict in the West.
Rivers of blood had been shed for the accomplishment of that task; but
now the sword was free to combine in battle with the shield on the
Western Front. And since the enemy had hitherto failed to break the
German defence here, the Germans themselves had now to launch the
attack. The enemy feared and trembled before the prospect of this German
victory.

At Paris and London conferences followed one another in unending series.
Even the enemy propaganda encountered difficulties. It was no longer so
easy to demonstrate that the prospect of a German victory was hopeless.
A prudent silence reigned at the front, even among the troops of the
Entente. The insolence of their masters had suddenly subsided. A
disturbing truth began to dawn on them. Their opinion of the German
soldier had changed. Hitherto they were able to picture him as a kind of
fool whose end would be destruction; but now they found themselves face
to face with the soldier who had overcome their Russian ally. The policy
of restricting the offensive to the East, which had been imposed on the
German military authorities by the necessities of the situation, now
seemed to the Entente as a tactical stroke of genius. For three years
these Germans had been battering away at the Russian front without any
apparent success at first. Those fruitless efforts were almost sneered
at; for it was thought that in the long run the Russian giant would
triumph through sheer force of numbers. Germany would be worn out
through shedding so much blood. And facts appeared to confirm this hope.

Since the September days of 1914, when for the first time interminable
columns of Russian war prisoners poured into Germany after the Battle of
Tannenberg, it seemed as if the stream would never end but that as soon
as one army was defeated and routed another would take its place. The
supply of soldiers which the gigantic Empire placed at the disposal of
the Czar seemed inexhaustible; new victims were always at hand for the
holocaust of war. How long could Germany hold out in this competition?
Would not the day finally have to come when, after the last victory
which the Germans would achieve, there would still remain reserve armies
in Russia to be mustered for the final battle? And what then? According
to human standards a Russian victory over Germany might be delayed but
it would have to come in the long run.

All the hopes that had been based on Russia were now lost. The Ally who
had sacrificed the most blood on the altar of their mutual interests had
come to the end of his resources and lay prostrate before his
unrelenting foe. A feeling of terror and dismay came over the Entente
soldiers who had hitherto been buoyed up by blind faith. They feared the
coming spring. For, seeing that hitherto they had failed to break the
Germans when the latter could concentrate only part of the fighting
strength on the Western Front, how could they count on victory now that
the undivided forces of that amazing land of heroes appeared to be
gathered for a massed attack in the West?

The shadow of the events which had taken place in South Tyrol, the
spectre of General Cadorna's defeated armies, were reflected in the
gloomy faces of the Entente troops in Flanders. Faith in victory gave
way to fear of defeat to come.

Then, on those cold nights, when one almost heard the tread of the
German armies advancing to the great assault, and the decision was being
awaited in fear and trembling, suddenly a lurid light was set aglow in
Germany and sent its rays into the last shell-hole on the enemy's front.
At the very moment when the German divisions were receiving their final
orders for the great offensive a general strike broke out in Germany.

At first the world was dumbfounded. Then the enemy propaganda began
activities once again and pounced on this theme at the eleventh hour.
All of a sudden a means had come which could be utilized to revive the
sinking confidence of the Entente soldiers. The probabilities of victory
could now be presented as certain, and the anxious foreboding in regard
to coming events could now be transformed into a feeling of resolute
assurance. The regiments that had to bear the brunt of the Greatest
German onslaught in history could now be inspired with the conviction
that the final decision in this war would not be won by the audacity of
the German assault but rather by the powers of endurance on the side of
the defence. Let the Germans now have whatever victories they liked, the
revolution and not the victorious army was welcomed in the Fatherland.

British, French and American newspapers began to spread this belief
among their readers while a very ably managed propaganda encouraged the
morale of their troops at the front.

'Germany Facing Revolution! An Allied Victory Inevitable!' That was the
best medicine to set the staggering Poilu and Tommy on their feet once
again. Our rifles and machine-guns could now open fire once again; but
instead of effecting a panic-stricken retreat they were now met with a
determined resistance that was full of confidence.

That was the result of the strike in the munitions factories. Throughout
the enemy countries faith in victory was thus revived and strengthened,
and that paralysing feeling of despair which had hitherto made itself
felt on the Entente front was banished. Consequently the strike cost the
lives of thousands of German soldiers. But the despicable instigators of
that dastardly strike were candidates for the highest public positions
in the Germany of the Revolution.

At first it was apparently possible to overcome the repercussion of
these events on the German soldiers, but on the enemy's side they had a
lasting effect. Here the resistance had lost all the character of an
army fighting for a lost cause. In its place there was now a grim
determination to struggle through to victory. For, according to all
human rules of judgment, victory would now be assured if the Western
front could hold out against the German offensive even for only a few
months. The Allied parliaments recognized the possibilities of a better
future and voted huge sums of money for the continuation of the
propaganda which was employed for the purpose of breaking up the
internal cohesion of Germany.

It was my luck that I was able to take part in the first two offensives
and in the final offensive. These have left on me the most stupendous
impressions of my life--stupendous, because now for the last time the
struggle lost its defensive character and assumed the character of an
offensive, just as it was in 1914. A sigh of relief went up from the
German trenches and dug-outs when finally, after three years of
endurance in that inferno, the day for the settling of accounts had
come. Once again the lusty cheering of victorious battalions was heard,
as they hung the last crowns of the immortal laurel on the standards
which they consecrated to Victory. Once again the strains of patriotic
songs soared upwards to the heavens above the endless columns of
marching troops, and for the last time the Lord smiled on his ungrateful
children.

In the midsummer of 1918 a feeling of sultry oppression hung over the
front. At home they were quarrelling. About what? We heard a great deal
among various units at the front. The War was now a hopeless affair, and
only the foolhardy could think of victory. It was not the people but the
capitalists and the Monarchy who were interested in carrying on. Such
were the ideas that came from home and were discussed at the front.

At first this gave rise to only very slight reaction. What did universal
suffrage matter to us? Is this what we had been fighting for during four
years? It was a dastardly piece of robbery thus to filch from the graves
of our heroes the ideals for which they had fallen. It was not to the
slogan, 'Long Live Universal Suffrage,' that our troops in Flanders once
faced certain death but with the cry, 'DEUTSCHLAND U"BER ALLES IN DER
WELT'. A small but by no means an unimportant difference. And the
majority of those who were shouting for this suffrage were absent when
it came to fighting for it. All this political rabble were strangers to
us at the front. During those days only a fraction of these
parliamentarian gentry were to be seen where honest Germans
foregathered.

The old soldiers who had fought at the front had little liking for those
new war aims of Messrs. Ebert, Scheidemann, Barth, Liebknecht and
others. We could not understand why, all of a sudden, the shirkers
should abrogate all executive powers to themselves, without having any
regard to the army.

From the very beginning I had my own definite personal views. I
intensely loathed the whole gang of miserable party politicians who had
betrayed the people. I had long ago realized that the interests of the
nation played only a very small part with this disreputable crew and
that what counted with them was the possibility of filling their own
empty pockets. My opinion was that those people thoroughly deserved to
be hanged, because they were ready to sacrifice the peace and if
necessary allow Germany to be defeated just to serve their own ends. To
consider their wishes would mean to sacrifice the interests of the
working classes for the benefit of a gang of thieves. To meet their
wishes meant that one should agree to sacrifice Germany.

Such, too, was the opinion still held by the majority of the army. But
the reinforcements which came from home were fast becoming worse and
worse; so much so that their arrival was a source of weakness rather
than of strength to our fighting forces. The young recruits in
particular were for the most part useless. Sometimes it was hard to
believe that they were sons of the same nation that sent its youth into
the battles that were fought round Ypres.

In August and September the symptoms of moral disintegration increased
more and more rapidly, although the enemy's offensive was not at all
comparable to the frightfulness of our own former defensive battles. In
comparison with this offensive the battles fought on the Somme and in
Flanders remained in our memories as the most terrible of all horrors.

At the end of September my division occupied, for the third time, those
positions which we had once taken by storm as young volunteers. What a
memory!

Here we had received our baptism of fire, in October and November 1914.
With a burning love of the homeland in their hearts and a song on their
lips, our young regiment went into action as if going to a dance. The
dearest blood was given freely here in the belief that it was shed to
protect the freedom and independence of the Fatherland.

In July 1917 we set foot for the second time on what we regarded as
sacred soil. Were not our best comrades at rest here, some of them
little more than boys--the soldiers who had rushed into death for their
country's sake, their eyes glowing with enthusiastic love.

The older ones among us, who had been with the regiment from the
beginning, were deeply moved as we stood on this sacred spot where we
had sworn 'Loyalty and Duty unto Death'. Three years ago the regiment
had taken this position by storm; now it was called upon to defend it in
a gruelling struggle.

With an artillery bombardment that lasted three weeks the English
prepared for their great offensive in Flanders. There the spirits of the
dead seemed to live again. The regiment dug itself into the mud, clung
to its shell-holes and craters, neither flinching nor wavering, but
growing smaller in numbers day after day. Finally the British launched
their attack on July 31st, 1917.

We were relieved in the beginning of August. The regiment had dwindled
down to a few companies, who staggered back, mud-crusted, more like
phantoms than human beings. Besides a few hundred yards of shell-holes,
death was the only reward which the English gained.

Now in the autumn of 1918 we stood for the third time on the ground we
had stormed in 1914. The village of Comines, which formerly had served
us as a base, was now within the fighting zone. Although little had
changed in the surrounding district itself, yet the men had become
different, somehow or other. They now talked politics. Like everywhere
else, the poison from home was having its effect here also. The young
drafts succumbed to it completely. They had come directly from home.

During the night of October 13th-14th, the British opened an attack with
gas on the front south of Ypres. They used the yellow gas whose effect
was unknown to us, at least from personal experience. I was destined to
experience it that very night. On a hill south of Werwick, in the
evening of October 13th, we were subjected for several hours to a heavy
bombardment with gas bombs, which continued throughout the night with
more or less intensity. About midnight a number of us were put out of
action, some for ever. Towards morning I also began to feel pain. It
increased with every quarter of an hour; and about seven o'clock my eyes
were scorching as I staggered back and delivered the last dispatch I was
destined to carry in this war. A few hours later my eyes were like
glowing coals and all was darkness around me.

I was sent into hospital at Pasewalk in Pomerania, and there it was that
I had to hear of the Revolution.

For a long time there had been something in the air which was
indefinable and repulsive. People were saying that something was bound
to happen within the next few weeks, although I could not imagine what
this meant. In the first instance I thought of a strike similar to the
one which had taken place in spring. Unfavourable rumours were
constantly coming from the Navy, which was said to be in a state of
ferment. But this seemed to be a fanciful creation of a few isolated
young people. It is true that at the hospital they were all talking abut
the end of the war and hoping that this was not far off, but nobody
thought that the decision would come immediately. I was not able to read
the newspapers.

In November the general tension increased. Then one day disaster broke
in upon us suddenly and without warning. Sailors came in motor-lorries
and called on us to rise in revolt. A few Jew-boys were the leaders in
that combat for the 'Liberty, Beauty, and Dignity' of our National
Being. Not one of them had seen active service at the front. Through the
medium of a hospital for venereal diseases these three Orientals had
been sent back home. Now their red rags were being hoisted here.

During the last few days I had begun to feel somewhat better. The
burning pain in the eye-sockets had become less severe. Gradually I was
able to distinguish the general outlines of my immediate surroundings.
And it was permissible to hope that at least I would recover my sight
sufficiently to be able to take up some profession later on. That I
would ever be able to draw or design once again was naturally out of the
question. Thus I was on the way to recovery when the frightful hour
came.

My first thought was that this outbreak of high treason was only a local
affair. I tried to enforce this belief among my comrades. My Bavarian
hospital mates, in particular, were readily responsive. Their
inclinations were anything but revolutionary. I could not imagine this
madness breaking out in Munich; for it seemed to me that loyalty to the
House of Wittelsbach was, after all, stronger than the will of a few
Jews. And so I could not help believing that this was merely a revolt in
the Navy and that it would be suppressed within the next few days.

With the next few days came the most astounding information of my life.
The rumours grew more and more persistent. I was told that what I had
considered to be a local affair was in reality a general revolution. In
addition to this, from the front came the shameful news that they wished
to capitulate! What! Was such a thing possible?

On November 10th the local pastor visited the hospital for the purpose
of delivering a short address. And that was how we came to know the
whole story.

I was in a fever of excitement as I listened to the address. The
reverend old gentleman seemed to be trembling when he informed us that
the House of Hohen-zollern should no longer wear the Imperial Crown,
that the Fatherland had become a 'Republic', that we should pray to the
Almighty not to withhold His blessing from the new order of things and
not to abandon our people in the days to come. In delivering this
message he could not do more than briefly express appreciation of the
Royal House, its services to Pomerania, to Prussia, indeed, to the whole
of the German Fatherland, and--here he began to weep. A feeling of
profound dismay fell on the people in that assembly, and I do not think
there was a single eye that withheld its tears. As for myself, I broke
down completely when the old gentleman tried to resume his story by
informing us that we must now end this long war, because the war was
lost, he said, and we were at the mercy of the victor. The Fatherland
would have to bear heavy burdens in the future. We were to accept the
terms of the Armistice and trust to the magnanimity of our former
enemies. It was impossible for me to stay and listen any longer.
Darkness surrounded me as I staggered and stumbled back to my ward and
buried my aching head between the blankets and pillow.

I had not cried since the day that I stood beside my mother's grave.
Whenever Fate dealt cruelly with me in my young days the spirit of
determination within me grew stronger and stronger. During all those
long years of war, when Death claimed many a true friend and comrade
from our ranks, to me it would have appeared sinful to have uttered a
word of complaint. Did they not die for Germany? And, finally, almost in
the last few days of that titanic struggle, when the waves of poison gas
enveloped me and began to penetrate my eyes, the thought of becoming
permanently blind unnerved me; but the voice of conscience cried out
immediately: Poor miserable fellow, will you start howling when there
are thousands of others whose lot is a hundred times worse than yours?
And so I accepted my misfortune in silence, realizing that this was the
only thing to be done and that personal suffering was nothing when
compared with the misfortune of one's country.

So all had been in vain. In vain all the sacrifices and privations, in
vain the hunger and thirst for endless months, in vain those hours that
we stuck to our posts though the fear of death gripped our souls, and in
vain the deaths of two millions who fell in discharging this duty. Think
of those hundreds of thousands who set out with hearts full of faith in
their fatherland, and never returned; ought not their graves to open, so
that the spirits of those heroes bespattered with mud and blood should
come home and take vengeance on those who had so despicably betrayed the
greatest sacrifice which a human being can make for his country? Was it
for this that the soldiers died in August and September 1914, for this
that the volunteer regiments followed the old comrades in the autumn of
the same year? Was it for this that those boys of seventeen years of age
were mingled with the earth of Flanders? Was this meant to be the fruits
of the sacrifice which German mothers made for their Fatherland when,
with heavy hearts, they said good-bye to their sons who never returned?
Has all this been done in order to enable a gang of despicable criminals
to lay hands on the Fatherland?

Was this then what the German soldier struggled for through sweltering
heat and blinding snowstorm, enduring hunger and thirst and cold,
fatigued from sleepless nights and endless marches? Was it for this that
he lived through an inferno of artillery bombardments, lay gasping and
choking during gas attacks, neither flinching nor faltering, but
remaining staunch to the thought of defending the Fatherland against the
enemy? Certainly these heroes also deserved the epitaph:

   Traveller, when you come to Germany, tell the Homeland that we lie
   here, true to the Fatherland and faithful to our duty. (Note 13)
   
[Note 13. Here again we have the defenders of Thermopylae recalled as the
prototype of German valour in the Great War. Hitler's quotation is a
German variant of the couplet inscribed on the monument erected at
Thermopylae to the memory of Leonidas and his Spartan soldiers who fell
defending the Pass. As given by Herodotus, who claims that he saw the
inscription himself, the original text may be literally translated thus:

   Go, tell the Spartans, thou who passeth by,
   That here, obedient to their laws, we lie.]

And at Home? But--was this the only sacrifice that we had to consider?
Was the Germany of the past a country of little worth? Did she not owe a
certain duty to her own history? Were we still worthy to partake in the
glory of the past? How could we justify this act to future generations?

What a gang of despicable and depraved criminals!

The more I tried then to glean some definite information of the terrible
events that had happened the more my head became afire with rage and
shame. What was all the pain I suffered in my eyes compared with this
tragedy?

The following days were terrible to bear, and the nights still worse. To
depend on the mercy of the enemy was a precept which only fools or
criminal liars could recommend. During those nights my hatred
increased--hatred for the orignators of this dastardly crime.

During the following days my own fate became clear to me. I was forced
now to scoff at the thought of my personal future, which hitherto had
been the cause of so much worry to me. Was it not ludicrous to think of
building up anything on such a foundation? Finally, it also became clear
to me that it was the inevitable that had happened, something which I
had feared for a long time, though I really did not have the heart to
believe it.

Emperor William II was the first German Emperor to offer the hand of
friendship to the Marxist leaders, not suspecting that they were
scoundrels without any sense of honour. While they held the imperial
hand in theirs, the other hand was already feeling for the dagger.

There is no such thing as coming to an understanding with the Jews. It
must be the hard-and-fast 'Either-Or.'

For my part I then decided that I would take up political work.




CHAPTER VIII



THE BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITIES


Towards the end of November I returned to Munich. I went to the depot of
my regiment, which was now in the hands of the 'Soldiers' Councils'. As
the whole administration was quite repulsive to me, I decided to leave
it as soon as I possibly could. With my faithful war-comrade,
Ernst-Schmidt, I came to Traunstein and remained there until the camp
was broken up. In March 1919 we were back again in Munich.

The situation there could not last as it was. It tended irresistibly to
a further extension of the Revolution. Eisner's death served only to
hasten this development and finally led to the dictatorship of the
Councils--or, to put it more correctly, to a Jewish hegemony, which
turned out to be transitory but which was the original aim of those who
had contrived the Revolution.

At that juncture innumerable plans took shape in my mind. I spent whole
days pondering on the problem of what could be done, but unfortunately
every project had to give way before the hard fact that I was quite
unknown and therefore did not have even the first pre-requisite
necessary for effective action. Later on I shall explain the reasons why
I could not decide to join any of the parties then in existence.

As the new Soviet Revolution began to run its course in Munich my first
activities drew upon me the ill-will of the Central Council. In the
early morning of April 27th, 1919, I was to have been arrested; but the
three fellows who came to arrest me did not have the courage to face my
rifle and withdrew just as they had arrived.

A few days after the liberation of Munich I was ordered to appear before
the Inquiry Commission which had been set up in the 2nd Infantry
Regiment for the purpose of watching revolutionary activities. That was
my first incursion into the more or less political field.

After another few weeks I received orders to attend a course of lectures
which were being given to members of the army. This course was meant to
inculcate certain fundamental principles on which the soldier could base
his political ideas. For me the advantage of this organization was that
it gave me a chance of meeting fellow soldiers who were of the same way
of thinking and with whom I could discuss the actual situation. We were
all more or less firmly convinced that Germany could not be saved from
imminent disaster by those who had participated in the November
treachery--that is to say, the Centre and the Social-Democrats; and also
that the so-called Bourgeois-National group could not make good the
damage that had been done, even if they had the best intentions. They
lacked a number of requisites without which such a task could never be
successfully undertaken. The years that followed have justified the
opinions which we held at that time.

In our small circle we discussed the project of forming a new party. The
leading ideas which we then proposed were the same as those which were
carried into effect afterwards, when the German Labour Party was
founded. The name of the new movement which was to be founded should be
such that of itself, it would appeal to the mass of the people; for all
our efforts would turn out vain and useless if this condition were
lacking. And that was the reason why we chose the name
'Social-Revolutionary Party', particularly because the social principles
of our new organization were indeed revolutionary.

But there was also a more fundamental reason. The attention which I had
given to economic problems during my earlier years was more or less
confined to considerations arising directly out of the social problem.
Subsequently this outlook broadened as I came to study the German policy
of the Triple Alliance. This policy was very largely the result of an
erroneous valuation of the economic situation, together with a confused
notion as to the basis on which the future subsistence of the German
people could be guaranteed. All these ideas were based on the principle
that capital is exclusively the product of labour and that, just like
labour, it was subject to all the factors which can hinder or promote
human activity. Hence, from the national standpoint, the significance of
capital depended on the greatness and freedom and power of the State,
that is to say, of the nation, and that it is this dependence alone
which leads capital to promote the interests of the State and the
nation, from the instinct of self-preservation and for the sake of its
own development.

On such principles the attitude of the State towards capital would be
comparatively simple and clear. Its only object would be to make sure
that capital remained subservient to the State and did not allocate to
itself the right to dominate national interests. Thus it could confine
its activities within the two following limits: on the one side, to
assure a vital and independent system of national economy and, on the
other, to safeguard the social rights of the workers.

Previously I did not recognize with adequate clearness the difference
between capital which is purely the product of creative labour and the
existence and nature of capital which is exclusively the result of
financial speculation. Here I needed an impulse to set my mind thinking
in this direction; but that impulse had hitherto been lacking.

The requisite impulse now came from one of the men who delivered
lectures in the course I have already mentioned. This was Gottfried
Feder.

For the first time in my life I heard a discussion which dealt with the
principles of stock-exchange capital and capital which was used for loan
activities. After hearing the first lecture delivered by Feder, the idea
immediately came into my head that I had now found a way to one of the
most essential pre-requisites for the founding of a new party.

To my mind, Feder's merit consisted in the ruthless and trenchant way in
which he described the double character of the capital engaged in
stock-exchange and loan transaction, laying bare the fact that this
capital is ever and always dependent on the payment of interest. In
fundamental questions his statements were so full of common sense that
those who criticized him did not deny that AU FOND his ideas were sound
but they doubted whether it be possible to put these ideas into
practice. To me this seemed the strongest point in Feder's teaching,
though others considered it a weak point.

It is not the business of him who lays down a theoretical programme to
explain the various ways in which something can be put into practice.
His task is to deal with the problem as such; and, therefore, he has to
look to the end rather than the means. The important question is whether
an idea is fundamentally right or not. The question of whether or not it
may be difficult to carry it out in practice is quite another matter.
When a man whose task it is to lay down the principles of a programme or
policy begins to busy himself with the question as to whether it is
expedient and practical, instead of confining himself to the statement
of the absolute truth, his work will cease to be a guiding star to those
who are looking about for light and leading and will become merely a
recipe for every-day iife. The man who lays down the programme of a
movement must consider only the goal. It is for the political leader to
point out the way in which that goal may be reached. The thought of the
former will, therefore, be determined by those truths that are
everlasting, whereas the activity of the latter must always be guided by
taking practical account of the circumstances under which those truths
have to be carried into effect.

The greatness of the one will depend on the absolute truth of his idea,
considered in the abstract; whereas that of the other will depend on
whether or not he correctly judges the given realities and how they may
be utilized under the guidance of the truths established by the former.
The test of greatness as applied to a political leader is the success of
his plans and his enterprises, which means his ability to reach the goal
for which he sets out; whereas the final goal set up by the political
philosopher can never be reached; for human thought may grasp truths and
picture ends which it sees like clear crystal, though such ends can
never be completely fulfilled because human nature is weak and
imperfect. The more an idea is correct in the abstract, and, therefore,
all the more powerful, the smaller is the possibility of putting it into
practice, at least as far as this latter depends on human beings. The
significance of a political philosopher does not depend on the practical
success of the plans he lays down but rather on their absolute truth and
the influence they exert on the progress of mankind. If it were
otherwise, the founders of religions could not be considered as the
greatest men who have ever lived, because their moral aims will never be
completely or even approximately carried out in practice. Even that
religion which is called the Religion of Love is really no more than a
faint reflex of the will of its sublime Founder. But its significance
lies in the orientation which it endeavoured to give to human
civilization, and human virtue and morals.

This very wide difference between the functions of a political
philosopher and a practical political leader is the reason why the
qualifications necessary for both functions are scarcely ever found
associated in the same person. This applies especially to the so-called
successful politician of the smaller kind, whose activity is indeed
hardly more than practising the art of doing the possible, as Bismarck
modestly defined the art of politics in general. If such a politician
resolutely avoids great ideas his success will be all the easier to
attain; it will be attained more expeditely and frequently will be more
tangible. By reason of this very fact, however, such success is doomed
to futility and sometimes does not even survive the death of its author.
Generally speaking, the work of politicians is without significance for
the following generation, because their temporary success was based on
the expediency of avoiding all really great decisive problems and ideas
which would be valid also for future generations.

To pursue ideals which will still be of value and significance for the
future is generally not a very profitable undertaking and he who follows
such a course is only very rarely understood by the mass of the people,
who find beer and milk a more persuasive index of political values than
far-sighted plans for the future, the realization of which can only take
place later on and the advantages of which can be reaped only by
posterity.

Because of a certain vanity, which is always one of the blood-relations
of unintelligence, the general run of politicians will always eschew
those schemes for the future which are really difficult to put into
practice; and they will practise this avoidance so that they may not
lose the immediate favour of the mob. The importance and the success of
such politicians belong exclusively to the present and will be of no
consequence for the future. But that does not worry small-minded people;
they are quite content with momentary results.

The position of the constructive political philosopher is quite
different. The importance of his work must always be judged from the
standpoint of the future; and he is frequently described by the word
WELTFREMD, or dreamer. While the ability of the politician consists in
mastering the art of the possible, the founder of a political system
belongs to those who are said to please the gods only because they wish
for and demand the impossible. They will always have to renounce
contemporary fame; but if their ideas be immortal, posterity will grant
them its acknowledgment.

Within long spans of human progress it may occasionally happen that the
practical politician and political philosopher are one. The more
intimate this union is, the greater will be the obstacles which the
activity of the politician will have to encounter. Such a man does not
labour for the purpose of satisfying demands that are obvious to every
philistine, but he reaches out towards ends which can be understood only
by the few. His life is torn asunder by hatred and love. The protest of
his contemporaries, who do not understand the man, is in conflict with
the recognition of posterity, for whom he also works.

For the greater the work which a man does for the future, the less will
he be appreciated by his contemporaries. His struggle will accordingly
be all the more severe, and his success all the rarer. When, in the
course of centuries, such a man appears who is blessed with success
then, towards the end of his days, he may have a faint prevision of his
future fame. But such great men are only the Marathon runners of
history. The laurels of contemporary fame are only for the brow of the
dying hero.

The great protagonists are those who fight for their ideas and ideals
despite the fact that they receive no recognition at the hands of their
contemporaries. They are the men whose memories will be enshrined in the
hearts of the future generations. It seems then as if each individual
felt it his duty to make retroactive atonement for the wrong which great
men have suffered at the hands of their contemporaries. Their lives and
their work are then studied with touching and grateful admiration.
Especially in dark days of distress, such men have the power of healing
broken hearts and elevating the despairing spirit of a people.

To this group belong not only the genuinely great statesmen but all the
great reformers as well. Beside Frederick the Great we have such men as
Martin Luther and Richard Wagner.

When I heard Gottfried Feder's first lecture on 'The Abolition of the
Interest-Servitude', I understood immediately that here was a truth of
transcendental importance for the future of the German people. The
absolute separation of stock-exchange capital from the economic life of
the nation would make it possible to oppose the process of
internationalization in German business without at the same time
attacking capital as such, for to do this would jeopardize the
foundations of our national independence. I clearly saw what was
developing in Germany and I realized then that the stiffest fight we
would have to wage would not be against the enemy nations but against
international capital. In Feder's speech I found an effective
rallying-cry for our coming struggle.

Here, again, later events proved how correct was the impression we then
had. The fools among our bourgeois politicians do not mock at us on this
point any more; for even those politicians now see--if they would speak
the truth--that international stock-exchange capital was not only the
chief instigating factor in bringing on the War but that now when the
War is over it turns the peace into a hell.

The struggle against international finance capital and loan-capital has
become one of the most important points in the programme on which the
German nation has based its fight for economic freedom and independence.

Regarding the objections raised by so-called practical people, the
following answer must suffice: All apprehensions concerning the fearful
economic consequences that would follow the abolition of the servitude
that results from interest-capital are ill-timed; for, in the first
place, the economic principles hitherto followed have proved quite fatal
to the interests of the German people. The attitude adopted when the
question of maintaining our national existence arose vividly recalls
similar advice once given by experts--the Bavarian Medical College, for
example--on the question of introducing railroads. The fears expressed
by that august body of experts were not realized. Those who travelled in
the coaches of the new 'Steam-horse' did not suffer from vertigo. Those
who looked on did not become ill and the hoardings which had been
erected to conceal the new invention were eventually taken down. Only
those blinds which obscure the vision of the would-be 'experts', have
remained. And that will be always so.

In the second place, the following must be borne in mind: Any idea may
be a source of danger if it be looked upon as an end in itself, when
really it is only the means to an end. For me and for all genuine
National-Socialists there is only one doctrine. PEOPLE AND FATHERLAND.

What we have to fight for is the necessary security for the existence
and increase of our race and people, the subsistence of its children and
the maintenance of our racial stock unmixed, the freedom and
independence of the Fatherland; so that our people may be enabled to
fulfil the mission assigned to it by the Creator.

All ideas and ideals, all teaching and all knowledge, must serve these
ends. It is from this standpoint that everything must be examined and
turned to practical uses or else discarded. Thus a theory can never
become a mere dead dogma since everything will have to serve the
practical ends of everyday life.

Thus the judgment arrived at by Gottfried Feder determined me to make a
fundamental study of a question with which I had hitherto not been very
familiar.

I began to study again and thus it was that I first came to understand
perfectly what was the substance and purpose of the life-work of the
Jew, Karl Marx. His CAPITAL became intelligible to me now for the first
time. And in the light of it I now exactly understood the fight of the
Social-Democrats against national economics, a fight which was to
prepare the ground for the hegemony of a real international and
stock-exchange capital.

In another direction also this course of lectures had important
consequences for me.

One day I put my name down as wishing to take part in the discussion.
Another of the participants thought that he would break a lance for the
Jews and entered into a lengthy defence of them. This aroused my
opposition. An overwhelming number of those who attended the lecture
course supported my views. The consequence of it all was that, a few
days later, I was assigned to a regiment then stationed at Munich and
given a position there as 'instruction officer'.

At that time the spirit of discipline was rather weak among those
troops. It was still suffering from the after-effects of the period when
the Soldiers' Councils were in control. Only gradually and carefully
could a new spirit of military discipline and obedience be introduced in
place of 'voluntary obedience', a term which had been used to express
the ideal of military discipline under Kurt Eisner's higgledy-piggledy
regime. The soldiers had to be taught to think and feel in a national
and patriotic way. In these two directions lay my future line of action.

I took up my work with the greatest delight and devotion. Here I was
presented with an opportunity of speaking before quite a large audience.
I was now able to confirm what I had hitherto merely felt, namely, that
I had a talent for public speaking. My voice had become so much better
that I could be well understood, at least in all parts of the small hall
where the soldiers assembled.

No task could have been more pleasing to me than this one; for now,
before being demobilized, I was in a position to render useful service
to an institution which had been infinitely dear to my heart: namely,
the army.

I am able to state that my talks were successful. During the course of
my lectures I have led back hundreds and even thousands of my fellow
countrymen to their people and their fatherland. I 'nationalized' these
troops and by so doing I helped to restore general discipline.

Here again I made the acquaintance of several comrades whose thought ran
along the same lines as my own and who later became members of the first
group out of which the new movement developed.




CHAPTER IX



THE GERMAN LABOUR PARTY


One day I received an order from my superiors to investigate the nature
of an association which was apparently political. It called itself 'The
German Labour Party' and was soon to hold a meeting at which Gottfried
Feder would speak. I was ordered to attend this meeting and report on
the situation.

The spirit of curiosity in which the army authorities then regarded
political parties can be very well understood. The Revolution had
granted the soldiers the right to take an active part in politics and it
was particularly those with the smallest experience who had availed
themselves of this right. But not until the Centre and the
Social-Democratic parties were reluctantly forced to recognize that the
sympathies of the soldiers had turned away from the revolutionary
parties towards the national movement and the national reawakening, did
they feel obliged to withdraw from the army the right to vote and to
forbid it all political activity.

The fact that the Centre and Marxism had adopted this policy was
instructive, because if they had not thus curtailed the 'rights of the
citizen'--as they described the political rights of the soldiers after
the Revolution--the government which had been established in November
1918 would have been overthrown within a few years and the dishonour and
disgrace of the nation would not have been further prolonged. At that
time the soldiers were on the point of taking the best way to rid the
nation of the vampires and valets who served the cause of the Entente in
the interior of the country. But the fact that the so-called 'national'
parties voted enthusiastically for the doctrinaire policy of the
criminals who organized the Revolution in November (1918) helped also to
render the army ineffective as an instrument of national restoration and
thus showed once again where men might be led by the purely abstract
notions accepted by these most gullible people.

The minds of the bourgeois middle classes had become so fossilized that
they sincerely believed the army could once again become what it had
previously been, namely, a rampart of German valour; while the Centre
Party and the Marxists intended only to extract the poisonous tooth of
nationalism, without which an army must always remain just a police
force but can never be in the position of a military organization
capable of fighting against the outside enemy. This truth was
sufficiently proved by subsequent events.

Or did our 'national' politicians believe, after all, that the
development of our army could be other than national? This belief might
be possible and could be explained by the fact that during the War they
were not soldiers but merely talkers. In other words, they were
parliamentarians, and, as such, they did not have the slightest idea of
what was passing in the hearts of those men who remembered the greatness
of their own past and also remembered that they had once been the first
soldiers in the world.

I decided to attend the meeting of this Party, which had hitherto been
entirely unknown to me. When I arrived that evening in the guest room of
the former Sternecker Brewery--which has now become a place of
historical significance for us--I found approximately 20-25 persons
present, most of them belonging to the lower classes.

The theme of Feder's lecture was already familiar to me; for I had heard
it in the lecture course I have spoken of. Therefore, I could
concentrate my attention on studying the society itself.

The impression it made upon me was neither good nor bad. I felt that
here was just another one of these many new societies which were being
formed at that time. In those days everybody felt called upon to found a
new Party whenever he felt displeased with the course of events and had
lost confidence in all the parties already existing. Thus it was that
new associations sprouted up all round, to disappear just as quickly,
without exercising any effect or making any noise whatsoever. Generally
speaking, the founders of such associations did not have the slightest
idea of what it means to bring together a number of people for the
foundations of a party or a movement. Therefore these associations
disappeared because of their woeful lack of anything like an adequate
grasp of the necessities of the situation.

My opinion of the 'German Labour Party' was not very different after I
had listened to their proceedings for about two hours. I was glad when
Feder finally came to a close. I had observed enough and was just about
to leave when it was announced that anybody who wished was free to open
a discussion. Thereupon, I decided to remain. But the discussion seemed
to proceed without anything of vital importance being mentioned, when
suddenly a 'professor' commenced to speak. He opened by throwing doubt
on the accuracy of what Feder had said, and then. after Feder had
replied very effectively, the professor suddenly took up his position on
what he called 'the basis of facts,' but before this he recommended the
young party most urgently to introduce the secession of Bavaria from
Prussia as one of the leading proposals in its programme. In the most
self-assured way, this man kept on insisting that German-Austria would
join Bavaria and that the peace would then function much better. He made
other similarly extravagant statements. At this juncture I felt bound to
ask for permission to speak and to tell the learned gentleman what I
thought. The result was that the honourable gentleman who had last
spoken slipped out of his place, like a whipped cur, without uttering a
sound. While I was speaking the audience listened with an expression of
surprise on their faces. When I was just about to say good-night to the
assembly and to leave, a man came after me quickly and introduced
himself. I did not grasp the name correctly; but he placed a little book
in my hand, which was obviously a political pamphlet, and asked me very
earnestly to read it.

I was quite pleased; because in this way, I could come to know about
this association without having to attend its tiresome meetings.
Moreover, this man, who had the appearance of a workman, made a good
impression on me. Thereupon, I left the hall.

At that time I was living in one of the barracks of the 2nd Infantry
Regiment. I had a little room which still bore the unmistakable traces
of the Revolution. During the day I was mostly out, at the quarters of
Light Infantry No. 41 or else attending meetings or lectures, held at
some other branch of the army. I spent only the night at the quarters
where I lodged. Since I usually woke up about five o'clock every morning
I got into the habit of amusing myself with watching little mice which
played around in my small room. I used to place a few pieces of hard
bread or crust on the floor and watch the funny little beasts playing
around and enjoying themselves with these delicacies. I had suffered so
many privations in my own life that I well knew what hunger was and
could only too well picture to myself the pleasure these little
creatures were experiencing.

So on the morning after the meeting I have mentioned, it happened that
about five o'clock I lay fully awake in bed, watching the mice playing
and vying with each other. As I was not able to go to sleep again, I
suddenly remembered the pamphlet that one of the workers had given me at
the meeting. It was a small pamphlet of which this worker was the
author. In his little book he described how his mind had thrown off the
shackles of the Marxist and trades-union phraseology, and that he had
come back to the nationalist ideals. That was the reason why he had
entitled his little book: "My Political Awakening". The pamphlet secured
my attention the moment I began to read, and I read it with interest to
the end. The process here described was similar to that which I had
experienced in my own case ten years previously. Unconsciously my own
experiences began to stir again in my mind. During that day my thoughts
returned several times to what I had read; but I finally decided to give
the matter no further attention. A week or so later, however, I received
a postcard which informed me, to my astonishment, that I had been
admitted into the German Labour Party. I was asked to answer this
communication and to attend a meeting of the Party Committee on
Wednesday next.

This manner of getting members rather amazed me, and I did not know
whether to be angry or laugh at it. Hitherto I had not any idea of
entering a party already in existence but wanted to found one of my own.
Such an invitation as I now had received I looked upon as entirely out
of the question for me.

I was about to send a written reply when my curiosity got the better of
me, and I decided to attend the gathering at the date assigned, so that
I might expound my principles to these gentlemen in person.

Wednesday came. The tavern in which the meeting was to take place was
the 'Alte Rosenbad' in the Herrnstrasse, into which apparently only an
occasional guest wandered. This was not very surprising in the year
1919, when the bills of fare even at the larger restaurants were only
very modest and scanty in their pretensions and thus not very attractive
to clients. But I had never before heard of this restaurant.

I went through the badly-lighted guest-room, where not a single guest
was to be seen, and searched for the door which led to the side room;
and there I was face-to-face with the 'Congress'. Under the dim light
shed by a grimy gas-lamp I could see four young people sitting around a
table, one of them the author of the pamphlet. He greeted me cordially
and welcomed me as a new member of the German Labour Party.

I was taken somewhat aback on being informed that actually the National
President of the Party had not yet come; so I decided that I would keep
back my own exposition for the time being. Finally the President
appeared. He was the man who had been chairman of the meeting held in
the Sternecker Brewery, when Feder spoke.

My curiosity was stimulated anew and I sat waiting for what was going to
happen. Now I got at least as far as learning the names of the gentlemen
who had been parties to the whole affair. The REICH National President
of the Association was a certain Herr Harrer and the President for the
Munich district was Anton Drexler.

The minutes of the previous meeting were read out and a vote of
confidence in the secretary was passed. Then came the treasurer's
report. The Society possessed a total fund of seven marks and fifty
pfennigs (a sum corresponding to 7s. 6d. in English money at par),
whereupon the treasurer was assured that he had the confidence of the
members. This was now inserted in the minutes. Then letters of reply
which had been written by the Chairman were read; first, to a letter
received from Kiel, then to one from Du"sseldorf and finally to one from
Berlin. All three replies received the approval of all present. Then the
incoming letters were read--one from Berlin, one from Du"sseldorf and one
from Kiel. The reception of these letters seemed to cause great
satisfaction. This increasing bulk of correspondence was taken as the
best and most obvious sign of the growing importance of the German
Labour Party. And then? Well, there followed a long discussion of the
replies which would be given to these newly-received letters.

It was all very awful. This was the worst kind of parish-pump clubbism.
And was I supposed to become a member of such a club?

The question of new members was next discussed--that is to say, the
question of catching myself in the trap.

I now began to ask questions. But I found that, apart from a few general
principles, there was nothing--no programme, no pamphlet, nothing at all
in print, no card of membership, not even a party stamp, nothing but
obvious good faith and good intentions.

I no longer felt inclined to laugh; for what else was all this but a
typical sign of the most complete perplexity and deepest despair in
regard to all political parties, their programmes and views and
activities? The feeling which had induced those few young people to join
in what seemed such a ridiculous enterprise was nothing but the call of
the inner voice which told them--though more intuitively than
consciously--that the whole party system as it had hitherto existed was
not the kind of force that could restore the German nation or repair the
damages that had been done to the German people by those who hitherto
controlled the internal affairs of the nation. I quickly read through
the list of principles that formed the platform of the party. These
principles were stated on typewritten sheets. Here again I found
evidence of the spirit of longing and searching, but no sign whatever of
a knowledge of the conflict that had to be fought. I myself had
experienced the feelings which inspired those people. It was the longing
for a movement which should be more than a party, in the hitherto
accepted meaning of that word.

When I returned to my room in the barracks that evening I had formed a
definite opinion on this association and I was facing the most difficult
problem of my life. Should I join this party or refuse?

From the side of the intellect alone, every consideration urged me to
refuse; but my feelings troubled me. The more I tried to prove to myself
how senseless this club was, on the whole, the more did my feelings
incline me to favour it. During the following days I was restless.

I began to consider all the pros and cons. I had long ago decided to
take an active part in politics. The fact that I could do so only
through a new movement was quite clear to me; but I had hitherto lacked
the impulse to take concrete action. I am not one of those people who
will begin something to-day and just give it up the next day for the
sake of something new. That was the main reason which made it so
difficult for me to decide in joining something newly founded; for this
must become the real fulfilment of everything I dreamt, or else it had
better not be started at all. I knew that such a decision should bind me
for ever and that there could be no turning back. For me there could be
no idle dallying but only a cause to be championed ardently. I had
already an instinctive feeling against people who took up everything,
but never carried anything through to the end. I loathed these
Jacks-of-all-Trades, and considered the activities of such people to be
worse than if they were to remain entirely quiescent.

Fate herself now seemed to supply the finger-post that pointed out the
way. I should never have entered one of the big parties already in
existence and shall explain my reasons for this later on. This ludicrous
little formation, with its handful of members, seemed to have the unique
advantage of not yet being fossilized into an 'organization' and still
offered a chance for real personal activity on the part of the
individual. Here it might still be possible to do some effective work;
and, as the movement was still small, one could all the easier give it
the required shape. Here it was still possible to determine the
character of the movement, the aims to be achieved and the road to be
taken, which would have been impossible in the case of the big parties
already existing.

The longer I reflected on the problem, the more my opinion developed
that just such a small movement would best serve as an instrument to
prepare the way for the national resurgence, but that this could never
be done by the political parliamentary parties which were too firmly
attached to obsolete ideas or had an interest in supporting the new
regime. What had to be proclaimed here was a new WELTANSCHAUUNG and not
a new election cry.

It was, however, infinitely difficult to decide on putting the intention
into practice. What were the qualifications which I could bring to the
accomplishment of such a task?

The fact that I was poor and without resources could, in my opinion, be
the easiest to bear. But the fact that I was utterly unknown raised a
more difficult problem. I was only one of the millions which Chance
allows to exist or cease to exist, whom even their next-door neighbours
will not consent to know. Another difficulty arose from the fact that I
had not gone through the regular school curriculum.

The so-called 'intellectuals' still look down with infinite
superciliousness on anyone who has not been through the prescribed
schools and allowed them to pump the necessary knowledge into him. The
question of what a man can do is never asked but rather, what has he
learned? 'Educated' people look upon any imbecile who is plastered with
a number of academic certificates as superior to the ablest young fellow
who lacks these precious documents. I could therefore easily imagine how
this 'educated' world would receive me and I was wrong only in so far as
I then believed men to be for the most part better than they proved to
be in the cold light of reality. Because of their being as they are, the
few exceptions stand out all the more conspicuously. I learned more and
more to distinguish between those who will always be at school and those
who will one day come to know something in reality.

After two days of careful brooding and reflection I became convinced
that I must take the contemplated step.

It was the most fateful decision of my life. No retreat was possible.

Thus I declared myself ready to accept the membership tendered me by the
German Labour Party and received a provisional certificate of
membership. I was numbered SEVEN.




CHAPTER X



WHY THE SECOND REICH COLLAPSED


The depth of a fall is always measured by the difference between the
level of the original position from which a body has fallen and that in
which it is now found. The same holds good for Nations and States. The
matter of greatest importance here is the height of the original level,
or rather the greatest height that had been attained before the descent
began.

For only the profound decline or collapse of that which was capable of
reaching extraordinary heights can make a striking impression on the eye
of the beholder. The collapse of the Second REICH was all the more
bewildering for those who could ponder over it and feel the effect of it
in their hearts, because the REICH had fallen from a height which can
hardly be imagined in these days of misery and humiliation.

The Second REICH was founded in circumstances of such dazzling splendour
that the whole nation had become entranced and exalted by it. Following
an unparalleled series of victories, that Empire was handed over as the
guerdon of immortal heroism to the children and grandchildren of the
heroes. Whether they were fully conscious of it or not does not matter;
anyhow, the Germans felt that this Empire had not been brought into
existence by a series of able political negotiations through
parliamentary channels, but that it was different from political
institutions founded elsewhere by reason of the nobler circumstances
that had accompanied its establishment. When its foundations were laid
the accompanying music was not the chatter of parliamentary debates but
the thunder and boom of war along the battle front that encircled Paris.
It was thus that an act of statesmanship was accomplished whereby the
Germans, princes as well as people, established the future REICH and
restored the symbol of the Imperial Crown. Bismarck's State was not
founded on treason and assassination by deserters and shirkers but by
the regiments that had fought at the front. This unique birth and
baptism of fire sufficed of themselves to surround the Second Empire
with an aureole of historical splendour such as few of the older States
could lay claim to.

And what an ascension then began! A position of independence in regard
to the outside world guaranteed the means of livelihood at home. The
nation increased in numbers and in worldly wealth. The honour of the
State and therewith the honour of the people as a whole were secured and
protected by an army which was the most striking witness of the
difference between this new REICH and the old German Confederation.

But the downfall of the Second Empire and the German people has been so
profound that they all seem to have been struck dumbfounded and rendered
incapable of feeling the significance of this downfall or reflecting on
it. It seems as if people were utterly unable to picture in their minds
the heights to which the Empire formerly attained, so visionary and
unreal appears the greatness and splendour of those days in contrast to
the misery of the present. Bearing this in mind we can understand why
and how people become so dazed when they try to look back to the sublime
past that they forget to look for the symptoms of the great collapse
which must certainly have been present in some form or other. Naturally
this applies only to those for whom Germany was more than merely a place
of abode and a source of livelihood. These are the only people who have
been able to feel the present conditions as really catastrophic, whereas
others have considered these conditions as the fulfilment of what they
had looked forward to and hitherto silently wished.

The symptoms of future collapse were definitely to be perceived in those
earlier days, although very few made any attempt to draw a practical
lesson from their significance. But this is now a greater necessity than
it ever was before. For just as bodily ailments can be cured only when
their origin has been diagnosed, so also political disease can be
treated only when it has been diagnosed. It is obvious of course that
the external symptoms of any disease can be more readily detected than
its internal causes, for these symptoms strike the eye more easily. This
is also the reason why so many people recognize only external effects
and mistake them for causes. Indeed they will sometimes try to deny the
existence of such causes. And that is why the majority of people among
us recognize the German collapse only in the prevailing economic
distress and the results that have followed therefrom. Almost everyone
has to carry his share of this burden, and that is why each one looks on
the economic catastrophe as the cause of the present deplorable state of
affairs. The broad masses of the people see little of the cultural,
political, and moral background of this collapse. Many of them
completely lack both the necessary feeling and powers of understanding
for it.

That the masses of the people should thus estimate the causes of
Germany's downfall is quite understandable. But the fact that
intelligent sections of the community regard the German collapse
primarily as an economic catastrophe, and consequently think that a cure
for it may be found in an economic solution, seems to me to be the
reason why hitherto no improvement has been brought about. No
improvement can be brought about until it be understood that economics
play only a second or third role, while the main part is played by
political, moral and racial factors. Only when this is understood will
it be possible to understand the causes of the present evil and
consequently to find the ways and means of remedying them.

Therefore the question of why Germany really collapsed is one of the
most urgent significance, especially for a political movement which aims
at overcoming this disaster.

In scrutinizing the past with a view to discovering the causes of the
German break-up, it is necessary to be careful lest we may be unduly
impressed by external results that readily strike the eye and thus
ignore the less manifest causes of these results.

The most facile, and therefore the most generally accepted, way of
accounting for the present misfortune is to say that it is the result of
a lost war, and that this is the real cause of the present misfortune.
Probably there are many who honestly believe in this absurd explanation
but there are many more in whose mouths it is a deliberate and conscious
falsehood. This applies to all those who are now feeding at the
Government troughs. For the prophets of the Revolution again and again
declared to the people that it would be immaterial to the great masses
what the result of the War might be. On the contrary, they solemnly
assured the public that it was High Finance which was principally
interested in a victorious outcome of this gigantic struggle among the
nations but that the German people and the German workers had no
interest whatsoever in such an outcome. Indeed the apostles of world
conciliation habitually asserted that, far from any German downfall, the
opposite was bound to take place--namely, the resurgence of the German
people--once 'militarism' had been crushed. Did not these self-same
circles sing the praises of the Entente and did they not also lay the
whole blame for the sanguinary struggle on the shoulders of Germany?
Without this explanation, would they have been able to put forward the
theory that a military defeat would have no political consequences for
the German people? Was not the whole Revolution dressed up in gala
colours as blocking the victorious advance of the German banners and
that thus the German people would be assured its liberty both at home
and abroad?

Is not that so, you miserable, lying rascals?

That kind of impudence which is typical of the Jews was necessary in
order to proclaim the defeat of the army as the cause of the German
collapse. Indeed the Berlin VORWA"RTS, that organ and mouthpiece of
sedition then wrote on this occasion that the German nation should not
be permitted to bring home its banners triumphantly.

And yet they attribute our collapse to the military defeat.

Of course it would be out of the question to enter into an argument with
these liars who deny at one moment what they said the moment before. I
should waste no further words on them were it not for the fact that
there are many thoughtless people who repeat all this in parrot fashion,
without being necessarily inspired by any evil motives. But the
observations I am making here are also meant for our fighting followers,
seeing that nowadays one's spoken words are often forgotten and twisted
in their meaning.

The assertion that the loss of the War was the cause of the German
collapse can best be answered as follows:

It is admittedly a fact that the loss of the War was of tragic
importance for the future of our country. But that loss was not in
itself a cause. It was rather the consequence of other causes. That a
disastrous ending to this life-or-death conflict must have involved
catastrophes in its train was clearly seen by everyone of insight who
could think in a straightforward manner. But unfortunately there were
also people whose powers of understanding seemed to fail them at that
critical moment. And there were other people who had first questioned
that truth and then altogether denied it. And there were people who,
after their secret desire had been fulfilled, were suddenly faced with
the subsequent facts that resulted from their own collaboration. Such
people are responsible for the collapse, and not the lost war, though
they now want to attribute everything to this. As a matter of fact the
loss of the War was a result of their activities and not the result of
bad leadership as they now would like to maintain. Our enemies were not
cowards. They also know how to die. From the very first day of the War
they outnumbered the German Army, and the arsenals and armament
factories of the whole world were at their disposal for the
replenishment of military equipment. Indeed it is universally admitted
that the German victories, which had been steadily won during four years
of warfare against the whole world, were due to superior leadership,
apart of course from the heroism of the troops. And the organization was
solely due to the German military leadership. That organization and
leadership of the German Army was the most mighty thing that the world
has ever seen. Any shortcomings which became evident were humanly
unavoidable. The collapse of that army was not the cause of our present
distress. It was itself the consequence of other faults. But this
consequence in its turn ushered in a further collapse, which was more
visible. That such was actually the case can be shown as follows:

Must a military defeat necessarily lead to such a complete overthrow of
the State and Nation? Whenever has this been the result of an unlucky
war? As a matter of fact, are nations ever ruined by a lost war and by
that alone? The answer to this question can be briefly stated by
referring to the fact that military defeats are the result of internal
decay, cowardice, want of character, and are a retribution for such
things. If such were not the causes then a military defeat would lead to
a national resurgence and bring the nation to a higher pitch of effort.
A military defeat is not the tombstone of national life. History affords
innumerable examples to confirm the truth of that statement.

Unfortunately Germany's military overthrow was not an undeserved
catastrophe, but a well-merited punishment which was in the nature of an
eternal retribution. This defeat was more than deserved by us; for it
represented the greatest external phenomenon of decomposition among a
series of internal phenomena, which, although they were visible, were
not recognized by the majority of the people, who follow the tactics of
the ostrich and see only what they want to see.

Let us examine the symptoms that were evident in Germany at the time
that the German people accepted this defeat. Is it not true that in
several circles the misfortunes of the Fatherland were even joyfully
welcomed in the most shameful manner? Who could act in such a way
without thereby meriting vengeance for his attitude? Were there not
people who even went further and boasted that they had gone to the
extent of weakening the front and causing a collapse? Therefore it was
not the enemy who brought this disgrace upon our shoulders but rather
our own countrymen. If they suffered misfortune for it afterwards, was
that misfortune undeserved? Was there ever a case in history where a
people declared itself guilty of a war, and that even against its better
conscience and its better knowledge?

No, and again no. In the manner in which the German nation reacted to
its defeat we can see that the real cause of our collapse must be looked
for elsewhere and not in the purely military loss of a few positions or
the failure of an offensive. For if the front as such had given way and
thus brought about a national disaster, then the German nation would
have accepted the defeat in quite another spirit. They would have borne
the subsequent misfortune with clenched teeth, or they would have been
overwhelmed by sorrow. Regret and fury would have filled their hearts
against an enemy into whose hands victory had been given by a chance
event or the decree of Fate; and in that case the nation, following the
example of the Roman Senate (Note 14), would have faced the defeated
legions on their return and expressed their thanks for the sacrifices that
had been made and would have requested them not to lose faith in the
Empire. Even the capitulation would have been signed under the sway of
calm reason, while the heart would have beaten in the hope of the coming
REVANCHE.

[Note 14. Probably the author has two separate incidents in mind. The
first happened in 390 B.C., when, as the victorious Gauls descended on
Rome, the Senators ordered their ivory chairs to be placed in the Forum
before the Temples ofthe Gods. There, clad in their robes of state, they
awaited the invader, hoping to save the city by sacrificing themselves.
This noble gesture failed for the time being; but it had an inspiring
influence on subsequent generations. The second incident, which has more
historical authenticity, occurred after the Roman defeat at Cannae in 216
B.C. On that occasion Varro, the Roman commander, who, though in great
part responsible for the disaster, made an effort to carry on the
struggle, was, on his return to Rome, met by the citizens of all ranks
and publicly thanked because he had not despaired of the Republic. The
consequence was that the Republic refused to make peace with the
victorious Carthagenians.]

That is the reception that would have been given to a military defeat
which had to be attributed only to the adverse decree of Fortune. There
would have been neither joy-making nor dancing. Cowardice would not have
been boasted of, and the defeat would not have been honoured. On
returning from the Front, the troops would not have been mocked at, and
the colours would not have been dragged in the dust. But above all, that
disgraceful state of affairs could never have arisen which induced a
British officer, Colonel Repington, to declare with scorn: Every third
German is a traitor! No, in such a case this plague would never have
assumed the proportions of a veritable flood which, for the past five
years, has smothered every vestige of respect for the German nation in
the outside world.

This shows only too clearly how false it is to say that the loss of the
War was the cause of the German break-up. No. The military defeat was
itself but the consequence of a whole series of morbid symptoms and
their causes which had become active in the German nation before the War
broke out. The War was the first catastrophal consequence, visible to
all, of how traditions and national morale had been poisoned and how the
instinct of self-preservation had degenerated. These were the
preliminary causes which for many years had been undermining the
foundations of the nation and the Empire.

But it remained for the Jews, with their unqualified capacity for
falsehood, and their fighting comrades, the Marxists, to impute
responsibility for the downfall precisely to the man who alone had shown
a superhuman will and energy in his effort to prevent the catastrophe
which he had foreseen and to save the nation from that hour of complete
overthrow and shame. By placing responsibility for the loss of the world
war on the shoulders of Ludendorff they took away the weapon of moral
right from the only adversary dangerous enough to be likely to succeed
in bringing the betrayers of the Fatherland to Justice. All this was
inspired by the principle--which is quite true in itself--that in the
big lie there is always a certain force of credibility; because the
broad masses of a nation are always more easily corrupted in the deeper
strata of their emotional nature than consciously or voluntarily; and
thus in the primitive simplicity of their minds they more readily fall
victims to the big lie than the small lie, since they themselves often
tell small lies in little matters but would be ashamed to resort to
large-scale falsehoods. It would never come into their heads to
fabricate colossal untruths, and they would not believe that others
could have the impudence to distort the truth so infamously. Even though
the facts which prove this to be so may be brought clearly to their
minds, they will still doubt and waver and will continue to think that
there may be some other explanation. For the grossly impudent lie always
leaves traces behind it, even after it has been nailed down, a fact
which is known to all expert liars in this world and to all who conspire
together in the art of lying. These people know only too well how to use
falsehood for the basest purposes.

From time immemorial. however, the Jews have known better than any
others how falsehood and calumny can be exploited. Is not their very
existence founded on one great lie, namely, that they are a religious
community, whereas in reality they are a race? And what a race! One of
the greatest thinkers that mankind has produced has branded the Jews for
all time with a statement which is profoundly and exactly true. He
(Schopenhauer) called the Jew "The Great Master of Lies". Those who do
not realize the truth of that statement, or do not wish to believe it,
will never be able to lend a hand in helping Truth to prevail.

We may regard it as a great stroke of fortune for the German nation that
its period of lingering suffering was so suddenly curtailed and
transformed into such a terrible catastrophe. For if things had gone on
as they were the nation would have more slowly, but more surely, gone to
ruin. The disease would have become chronic; whereas, in the acute form
of the disaster, it at least showed itself clearly to the eyes of a
considerable number of observers. It was not by accident that man
conquered the black plague more easily than he conquered tuberculosis.
The first appeared in terrifying waves of death that shook the whole of
mankind, the other advances insidiously; the first induces terror, the
other gradual indifference. The result is, however, that men opposed the
first with all the energy they were capable of, whilst they try to
arrest tuberculosis by feeble means. Thus man has mastered the black
plague, while tuberculosis still gets the better of him.

The same applies to diseases in nations. So long as these diseases are
not of a catastrophic character, the population will slowly accustom
itself to them and later succumb. It is then a stroke of luck--although
a bitter one--when Fate decides to interfere in this slow process of
decay and suddenly brings the victim face to face with the final stage
of the disease. More often than not the result of a catastrophe is that
a cure is at once undertaken and carried through with rigid
determination.

But even in such a case the essential preliminary condition is always
the recognition of the internal causes which have given rise to the
disease in question.

The important question here is the differentiation of the root causes
from the circumstances developing out of them. This becomes all the more
difficult the longer the germs of disease remain in the national body
and the longer they are allowed to become an integral part of that body.
It may easily happen that, as time goes on, it will become so difficult
to recognize certain definite virulent poisons as such that they are
accepted as belonging to the national being; or they are merely
tolerated as a necessary evil, so that drastic attempts to locate those
alien germs are not held to be necessary.

During the long period of peace prior to the last war certain evils were
apparent here and there although, with one or two exceptions, very
little effort was made to discover their origin. Here again these
exceptions were first and foremost those phenomena in the economic life
of the nation which were more apparent to the individual than the evil
conditions existing in a good many other spheres.

There were many signs of decay which ought to have been given serious
thought. As far as economics were concerned, the following may be
said:--

The amazing increase of population in Germany before the war brought the
question of providing daily bread into a more and more prominent
position in all spheres of political and economic thought and action.
But unfortunately those responsible could not make up their minds to
arrive at the only correct solution and preferred to reach their
objective by cheaper methods. Repudiation of the idea of acquiring fresh
territory and the substitution for it of the mad desire for the
commercial conquest of the world was bound to lead eventually to
unlimited and injurious industrialization.

The first and most fatal result brought about in this way was the
weakening of the agricultural classes, whose decline was proportionate
to the increase in the proletariat of the urban areas, until finally the
equilibrium was completely upset.

The big barrier dividing rich and poor now became apparent. Luxury and
poverty lived so close to each other that the consequences were bound to
be deplorable. Want and frequent unemployment began to play havoc with
the people and left discontent and embitterment behind them. The result
of this was to divide the population into political classes. Discontent
increased in spite of commercial prosperity. Matters finally reached
that stage which brought about the general conviction that 'things
cannot go on as they are', although no one seemed able to visualize what
was really going to happen.

These were typical and visible signs of the depths which the prevailing
discontent had reached. Far worse than these, however, were other
consequences which became apparent as a result of the industrialization
of the nation.

In proportion to the extent that commerce assumed definite control of
the State, money became more and more of a God whom all had to serve and
bow down to. Heavenly Gods became more and more old-fashioned and were
laid away in the corners to make room for the worship of mammon. And
thus began a period of utter degeneration which became specially
pernicious because it set in at a time when the nation was more than
ever in need of an exalted idea, for a critical hour was threatening.
Germany should have been prepared to protect with the sword her efforts
to win her own daily bread in a peaceful way.

Unfortunately, the predominance of money received support and sanction
in the very quarter which ought to have been opposed to it. His Majesty,
the Kaiser, made a mistake when he raised representatives of the new
finance capital to the ranks of the nobility. Admittedly, it may be
offered as an excuse that even Bismarck failed to realize the
threatening danger in this respect. In practice, however, all ideal
virtues became secondary considerations to those of money, for it was
clear that having once taken this road, the nobility of the sword would
very soon rank second to that of finance.

Financial operations succeed easier than war operations. Hence it was no
longer any great attraction for a true hero or even a statesman to be
brought into touch with the nearest Jew banker. Real merit was not
interested in receiving cheap decorations and therefore declined them
with thanks. But from the standpoint of good breeding such a development
was deeply regrettable. The nobility began to lose more and more of the
racial qualities that were a condition of its very existence, with the
result that in many cases the term 'plebeian' would have been more
appropriate.

A serious state of economic disruption was being brought about by the
slow elimination of the personal control of vested interests and the
gradual transference of the whole economic structure into the hands of
joint stock companies.

In this way labour became degraded into an object of speculation in the
hands of unscrupulous exploiters.

The de-personalization of property ownership increased on a vast scale.
Financial exchange circles began to triumph and made slow but sure
progress in assuming control of the whole of national life.

Before the War the internationalization of the German economic structure
had already begun by the roundabout way of share issues. It is true that
a section of the German industrialists made a determined attempt to
avert the danger, but in the end they gave way before the united attacks
of money-grabbing capitalism, which was assisted in this fight by its
faithful henchmen in the Marxist movement.

The persistent war against German 'heavy industries' was the visible
start of the internationalization of German economic life as envisaged
by the Marxists. This, however, could only be brought to a successful
conclusion by the victory which Marxism was able to gain in the
Revolution. As I write these words, success is attending the general
attack on the German State Railways which are now to be turned over to
international capitalists. Thus 'International Social-Democracy' has
once again attained one of its main objectives.

The best evidence of how far this 'commercialization' of the German
nation was able to go can be plainly seen in the fact that when the War
was over one of the leading captains of German industry and commerce
gave it as his opinion that commerce as such was the only force which
could put Germany on its feet again.

This sort of nonsense was uttered just at the time when France was
restoring public education on a humanitarian basis, thus doing away with
the idea that national life is dependent on commerce rather than ideal
values. The statement which Stinnes broadcasted to the world at that
time caused incredible confusion. It was immediately taken up and has
become the leading motto of all those humbugs and babblers--the
'statesmen' whom Fate let loose on Germany after the Revolution.

One of the worst evidences of decadence in Germany before the War was
the ever increasing habit of doing things by halves. This was one of the
consequences of the insecurity that was felt all round. And it is to be
attributed also to a certain timidity which resulted from one cause or
another. And the latter malady was aggravated by the educational system.

German education in pre-War times had an extraordinary number of weak
features. It was simply and exclusively limited to the production of
pure knowledge and paid little attention to the development of practical
ability. Still less attention was given to the development of individual
character, in so far as this is ever possible. And hardly any attention
at all was paid to the development of a sense of responsibility, to
strengthening the will and the powers of decision. The result of this
method was to produce erudite people who had a passion for knowing
everything. Before the War we Germans were accepted and estimated
accordingly. The German was liked because good use could be made of him;
but there was little esteem for him personally, on account of this
weakness of character. For those who can read its significance aright,
there is much instruction in the fact that among all nationalities
Germans were the first to part with their national citizenship when they
found themselves in a foreign country. And there is a world of meaning
in the saying that was then prevalent: 'With the hat in the hand one can
go through the whole country'.

This kind of social etiquette turned out disastrous when it prescribed
the exclusive forms that had to be observed in the presence of His
Majesty. These forms insisted that there should be no contradiction
whatsoever, but that everything should be praised which His Majesty
condescended to like.

It was just here that the frank expression of manly dignity, and not
subservience, was most needed. Servility in the presence of monarchs may
be good enough for the professional lackey and place-hunter, in fact for
all those decadent beings who are more pleased to be found moving in the
high circles of royalty than among honest citizens. These exceedingly
'humble' creatures however, though they grovel before their lord and
bread-giver, invariably put on airs of boundless superciliousness
towards other mortals, which was particularly impudent when they posed
as the only people who had the right to be called 'monarchists'. This
was a gross piece of impertinence such as only despicable specimens
among the newly-ennobled or yet-to-be-ennobled could be capable of.

And these have always been just the people who have prepared the way for
the downfall of monarchy and the monarchical principle. It could not be
otherwise. For when a man is prepared to stand up for a cause, come what
may, he never grovels before its representative. A man who is serious
about the maintenance and welfare of an institution will not allow
himself to be discouraged when the representatives of that institution
show certain faults and failings. And he certainly will not run around
to tell the world about it, as certain false democratic 'friends' of the
monarchy have done; but he will approach His Majesty, the bearer of the
Crown himself, to warn him of the seriousness of a situation and
persuade the monarch to act. Furthermore, he will not take up the
standpoint that it must be left to His Majesty to act as the latter
thinks fit, even though the course which he would take must plainly lead
to disaster. But the man I am thinking of will deem it his duty to
protect the monarchy against the monarch himself, no matter what
personal risk he may run in doing so. If the worth of the monarchical
institution be dependent on the person of the monarch himself, then it
would be the worst institution imaginable; for only in rare cases are
kings found to be models of wisdom and understanding, and integrity of
character, though we might like to think otherwise. But this fact is
unpalatable to the professional knaves and lackeys. Yet all upright men,
and they are the backbone of the nation, repudiate the nonsensical
fiction that all monarchs are wise, etc. For such men history is history
and truth is truth, even where monarchs are concerned. But if a nation
should have the good luck to possess a great king or a great man it
ought to consider itself as specially favoured above all the other
nations, and these may be thankful if an adverse fortune has not
allotted the worst to them.

It is clear that the worth and significance of the monarchical principle
cannot rest in the person of the monarch alone, unless Heaven decrees
that the crown should be set on the head of a brilliant hero like
Frederick the Great, or a sagacious person like William I. This may
happen once in several centuries, but hardly oftener than that. The
ideal of the monarchy takes precedence of the person of the monarch,
inasmuch as the meaning of the institution must lie in the institution
it self. Thus the monarchy may be reckoned in the category of those
whose duty it is to serve. He, too, is but a wheel in this machine and
as such he is obliged to do his duty towards it. He has to adapt himself
for the fulfilment of high aims. If, therefore, there were no
significance attached to the idea itself and everything merely centred
around the 'sacred' person, then it would never be possible to depose a
ruler who has shown himself to be an imbecile.

It is essential to insist upon this truth at the present time, because
recently those phenomena have appeared again and were in no small
measure responsible for the collapse of the monarchy. With a certain
amount of native impudence these persons once again talk about 'their
King'--that is to say, the man whom they shamefully deserted a few years
ago at a most critical hour. Those who refrain from participating in
this chorus of lies are summarily classified as 'bad Germans'. They who
make the charge are the same class of quitters who ran away in 1918 and
took to wearing red badges. They thought that discretion was the better
part of valour. They were indifferent about what happened to the Kaiser.
They camouflaged themselves as 'peaceful citizens' but more often than
not they vanished altogether. All of a sudden these champions of royalty
were nowhere to be found at that time. Circumspectly, one by one, these
'servants and counsellors' of the Crown reappeared, to resume their
lip-service to royalty but only after others had borne the brunt of the
anti-royalist attack and suppressed the Revolution for them. Once again
they were all there. remembering wistfully the flesh-pots of Egypt and
almost bursting with devotion for the royal cause. This went on until
the day came when red badges were again in the ascendant. Then this
whole ramshackle assembly of royal worshippers scuttled anew like mice
from the cats.

If monarchs were not themselves responsible for such things one could
not help sympathizing with them. But they must realize that with such
champions thrones can be lost but certainly never gained.

All this devotion was a mistake and was the result of our whole system
of education, which in this case brought about a particularly severe
retribution. Such lamentable trumpery was kept up at the various courts
that the monarchy was slowly becoming under mined. When finally it did
begin to totter, everything was swept away. Naturally, grovellers and
lick-spittles are never willing to die for their masters. That monarchs
never realize this, and almost on principle never really take the
trouble to learn it, has always been their undoing.

One visible result of wrong educational system was the fear of
shouldering responsibility and the resultant weakness in dealing with
obvious vital problems of existence.

The starting point of this epidemic, however, was in our parliamentary
institution where the shirking of responsibility is particularly
fostered. Unfortunately the disease slowly spread to all branches of
everyday life but particularly affected the sphere of public affairs.
Responsibility was being shirked everywhere and this led to insufficient
or half-hearted measures being taken, personal responsibility for each
act being reduced to a minimum.

If we consider the attitude of various Governments towards a whole
series of really pernicious phenomena in public life, we shall at once
recognize the fearful significance of this policy of half-measures and
the lack of courage to undertake responsibilities. I shall single out
only a few from the large numbers of instances known to me.

In journalistic circles it is a pleasing custom to speak of the Press as
a 'Great Power' within the State. As a matter of fact its importance is
immense. One cannot easily overestimate it, for the Press continues the
work of education even in adult life. Generally, readers of the Press
can be classified into three groups:

First, those who believe everything they read;

Second, those who no longer believe anything;

Third, those who critically examine what they read and form their
judgments accordingly.

Numerically, the first group is by far the strongest, being composed of
the broad masses of the people. Intellectually, it forms the simplest
portion of the nation. It cannot be classified according to occupation
but only into grades of intelligence. Under this category come all those
who have not been born to think for themselves or who have not learnt to
do so and who, partly through incompetence and partly through ignorance,
believe everything that is set before them in print. To these we must
add that type of lazy individual who, although capable of thinking for
himself out of sheer laziness gratefully absorbs everything that others
had thought over, modestly believing this to have been thoroughly done.
The influence which the Press has on all these people is therefore
enormous; for after all they constitute the broad masses of a nation.
But, somehow they are not in a position or are not willing personally to
sift what is being served up to them; so that their whole attitude
towards daily problems is almost solely the result of extraneous
influence. All this can be advantageous where public enlightenment is of
a serious and truthful character, but great harm is done when scoundrels
and liars take a hand at this work.

The second group is numerically smaller, being partly composed of those
who were formerly in the first group and after a series of bitter
disappointments are now prepared to believe nothing of what they see in
print. They hate all newspapers. Either they do not read them at all or
they become exceptionally annoyed at their contents, which they hold to
be nothing but a congeries of lies and misstatements. These people are
difficult to handle; for they will always be sceptical of the truth.
Consequently, they are useless for any form of positive work.

The third group is easily the smallest, being composed of real
intellectuals whom natural aptitude and education have taught to think
for themselves and who in all things try to form their own judgments,
while at the same time carefully sifting what they read. They will not
read any newspaper without using their own intelligence to collaborate
with that of the writer and naturally this does not set writers an easy
task. Journalists appreciate this type of reader only with a certain
amount of reservation.

Hence the trash that newspapers are capable of serving up is of little
danger--much less of importance--to the members of the third group of
readers. In the majority of cases these readers have learnt to regard
every journalist as fundamentally a rogue who sometimes speaks the
truth. Most unfortunately, the value of these readers lies in their
intelligence and not in their numerical strength, an unhappy state of
affairs in a period where wisdom counts for nothing and majorities for
everything. Nowadays when the voting papers of the masses are the
deciding factor; the decision lies in the hands of the numerically
strongest group; that is to say the first group, the crowd of simpletons
and the credulous.

It is an all-important interest of the State and a national duty to
prevent these people from falling into the hands of false, ignorant or
even evil-minded teachers. Therefore it is the duty of the State to
supervise their education and prevent every form of offence in this
respect. Particular attention should be paid to the Press; for its
influence on these people is by far the strongest and most penetrating
of all; since its effect is not transitory but continual. Its immense
significance lies in the uniform and persistent repetition of its
teaching. Here, if anywhere, the State should never forget that all
means should converge towards the same end. It must not be led astray by
the will-o'-the-wisp of so-called 'freedom of the Press', or be talked
into neglecting its duty, and withholding from the nation that which is
good and which does good. With ruthless determination the State must
keep control of this instrument of popular education and place it at the
service of the State and the Nation.

But what sort of pabulum was it that the German Press served up for the
consumption of its readers in pre-War days? Was it not the worst
virulent poison imaginable? Was not pacifism in its worst form
inoculated into our people at a time when others were preparing slowly
but surely to pounce upon Germany? Did not this self-same Press of ours
in peace time already instil into the public mind a doubt as to the
sovereign rights of the State itself, thereby already handicapping the
State in choosing its means of defence? Was it not the German Press that
under stood how to make all the nonsensical talk about 'Western
democracy' palatable to our people, until an exuberant public was
eventually prepared to entrust its future to the League of Nations? Was
not this Press instrumental in bringing in a state of moral degradation
among our people? Were not morals and public decency made to look
ridiculous and classed as out-of-date and banal, until finally our
people also became modernized? By means of persistent attacks, did not
the Press keep on undermining the authority of the State, until one blow
sufficed to bring this institution tottering to the ground? Did not the
Press oppose with all its might every movement to give the State that
which belongs to the State, and by means of constant criticism, injure
the reputation of the army, sabotage general conscription and demand
refusal of military credits, etc.--until the success of this campaign
was assured?

The function of the so-called liberal Press was to dig the grave for the
German people and REICH. No mention need be made of the lying Marxist
Press. To them the spreading of falsehood is as much a vital necessity
as the mouse is to a cat. Their sole task is to break the national
backbone of the people, thus preparing the nation to become the slaves
of international finance and its masters, the Jews.

And what measures did the State take to counteract this wholesale
poisoning of the public mind? None, absolutely nothing at all. By this
policy it was hoped to win the favour of this pest--by means of
flattery, by a recognition of the 'value' of the Press, its
'importance', its 'educative mission' and similar nonsense. The Jews
acknowledged all this with a knowing smile and returned thanks.

The reason for this ignominious failure on the part of the State lay not
so much in its refusal to realize the danger as in the out-and-out
cowardly way of meeting the situation by the adoption of faulty and
ineffective measures. No one had the courage to employ any energetic and
radical methods. Everyone temporised in some way or other; and instead
of striking at its heart, the viper was only further irritated. The
result was that not only did everything remain as it was, but the power
of this institution which should have been combated grew greater from
year to year.

The defence put up by the Government in those days against a mainly
Jew-controlled Press that was slowly corrupting the nation, followed no
definite line of action, it had no determination behind it and above
all, no fixed objective whatsoever in view. This is where official
understanding of the situation completely failed both in estimating the
importance of the struggle, choosing the means and deciding on a
definite plan. They merely tinkered with the problem. Occasionally, when
bitten, they imprisoned one or another journalistic viper for a few
weeks or months, but the whole poisonous brood was allowed to carry on
in peace.

It must be admitted that all this was partly the result of extraordinary
crafty tactics on the part of Jewry on the one hand, and obvious
official stupidity or nai"vete' on the other hand. The Jews were too
clever to allow a simultaneous attack to be made on the whole of their
Press. No one section functioned as cover for the other. While the
Marxist newspaper, in the most despicable manner possible, reviled
everything that was sacred, furiously attacked the State and Government
and incited certain classes of the community against each other, the
bourgeois-democratic papers, also in Jewish hands, knew how to
camouflage themselves as model examples of objectivity. They studiously
avoided harsh language, knowing well that block-heads are capable of
judging only by external appearances and never able to penetrate to the
real depth and meaning of anything. They measure the worth of an object
by its exterior and not by its content. This form of human frailty was
carefully studied and understood by the Press.

For this class of blockheads the FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG would be
acknowledged as the essence of respectability. It always carefully
avoided calling a spade a spade. It deprecated the use of every form of
physical force and persistently appealed to the nobility of fighting
with 'intellectual' weapons. But this fight, curiously enough, was most
popular with the least intellectual classes. That is one of the results
of our defective education, which turns the youth away from the
instinctive dictates of Nature, pumps into them a certain amount of
knowledge without however being able to bring them to what is the
supreme act of knowing. To this end diligence and goodwill are of no
avail, if innate understanding fail. This final knowledge at which man
must aim is the understanding of causes which are instinctively
perceived.

Let me explain: Man must not fall into the error of thinking that he was
ever meant to become lord and master of Nature. A lopsided education has
helped to encourage that illusion. Man must realize that a fundamental
law of necessity reigns throughout the whole realm of Nature and that
his existence is subject to the law of eternal struggle and strife. He
will then feel that there cannot be a separate law for mankind in a
world in which planets and suns follow their orbits, where moons and
planets trace their destined paths, where the strong are always the
masters of the weak and where those subject to such laws must obey them
or be destroyed. Man must also submit to the eternal principles of this
supreme wisdom. He may try to understand them but he can never free
himself from their sway.

It is just for intellectual DEMI-MONDE that the Jew writes those papers
which he calls his 'intellectual' Press. For them the FRANKFURTER
ZEITUNG and BERLINER TAGEBLATT are written, the tone being adapted to
them, and it is over these people that such papers have an influence.
While studiously avoiding all forms of expression that might strike the
reader as crude, the poison is injected from other vials into the hearts
of the clientele. The effervescent tone and the fine phraseology lug the
readers into believing that a love for knowledge and moral principle is
the sole driving force that determines the policy of such papers,
whereas in reality these features represent a cunning way of disarming
any opposition that might be directed against the Jews and their Press.

They make such a parade of respectability that the imbecile readers are
all the more ready to believe that the excesses which other papers
indulge in are only of a mild nature and not such as to warrant legal
action being taken against them. Indeed such action might trespass on
the freedom of the Press, that expression being a euphemism under which
such papers escape legal punishment for deceiving the public and
poisoning the public mind. Hence the authorities are very slow indeed to
take any steps against these journalistic bandits for fear of
immediately alienating the sympathy of the so-called respectable Press.
A fear that is only too well founded, for the moment any attempt is made
to proceed against any member of the gutter press all the others rush to
its assistance at once, not indeed to support its policy but simply and
solely to defend the principle of freedom of the Press and liberty of
public opinion. This outcry will succeed in cowering the most stalwart;
for it comes from the mouth of what is called decent journalism.

And so this poison was allowed to enter the national bloodstream and
infect public life without the Government taking any effectual measures
to master the course of the disease. The ridiculous half-measures that
were taken were in themselves an indication of the process of
disintegration that was already threatening to break up the Empire. For
an institution practically surrenders its existence when it is no longer
determined to defend itself with all the weapons at its command. Every
half-measure is the outward expression of an internal process of decay
which must lead to an external collapse sooner or later.

I believe that our present generation would easily master this danger if
they were rightly led. For this generation has gone through certain
experiences which must have strengthened the nerves of all those who did
not become nervously broken by them. Certainly in days to come the Jews
will raise a tremendous cry throughout their newspapers once a hand is
laid on their favourite nest, once a move is made to put an end to this
scandalous Press and once this instrument which shapes public opinion is
brought under State control and no longer left in the hands of aliens
and enemies of the people. I am certain that this will be easier for us
than it was for our fathers. The scream of the twelve-inch shrapnel is
more penetrating than the hiss from a thousand Jewish newspaper vipers.
Therefore let them go on with their hissing.

A further example of the weak and hesitating way in which vital national

problems were dealt with in pre-War Germany is the following: Hand in
hand with the political and moral process of infecting the nation, for
many years an equally virulent process of infection had been attacking
the public health of the people. In large cities, particularly, syphilis
steadily increased and tuberculosis kept pace with it in reaping its
harvest of death almost in every part of the country.

Although in both cases the effect on the nation was alarming, it seemed
as if nobody was in a position to undertake any decisive measures
against these scourges.

In the case of syphilis especially the attitude of the State and public
bodies was one of absolute capitulation. To combat this state of affairs
something of far wider sweep should have been undertaken than was really
done. The discovery of a remedy which is of a questionable nature and
the excellent way in which it was placed on the market were only of
little assistance in fighting such a scourge. Here again the only course
to adopt is to attack the disease in its causes rather than in its
symptoms. But in this case the primary cause is to be found in the
manner in which love has been prostituted. Even though this did not
directly bring about the fearful disease itself, the nation must still
suffer serious damage thereby, for the moral havoc resulting from this
prostitution would be sufficient to bring about the destruction of the
nation, slowly but surely. This Judaizing of our spiritual life and
mammonizing of our natural instinct for procreation will sooner or later
work havoc with our whole posterity. For instead of strong, healthy
children, blessed with natural feelings, we shall see miserable
specimens of humanity resulting from economic calculation. For economic
considerations are becoming more and more the foundations of marriage
and the sole preliminary condition of it. And love looks for an outlet
elsewhere.

Here, as elsewhere, one may defy Nature for a certain period of time;
but sooner or later she will take her inexorable revenge. And when man
realizes this truth it is often too late.

Our own nobility furnishes an example of the devastating consequences
that follow from a persistent refusal to recognize the primary
conditions necessary for normal wedlock. Here we are openly brought face
to face with the results of those reproductive habits which on the one
hand are determined by social pressure and, on the other, by financial
considerations. The one leads to inherited debility and the other to
adulteration of the blood-strain; for all the Jewish daughters of the
department store proprietors are looked upon as eligible mates to
co-operate in propagating His Lordship's stock. And the stock certainly
looks it. All this leads to absolute degeneration. Nowadays our
bourgeoise are making efforts to follow in the same path, They will come
to the same journey's end.

These unpleasant truths are hastily and nonchalantly brushed aside, as
if by so doing the real state of affairs could also be abolished. But
no. It cannot be denied that the population of our great towns and
cities is tending more and more to avail of prostitution in the exercise
of its amorous instincts and is thus becoming more and more contaminated
by the scourge of venereal disease. On the one hand, the visible effects
of this mass-infection can be observed in our insane asylums and, on the
other hand, alas! among the children at home. These are the doleful and
tragic witnesses to the steadily increasing scourge that is poisoning
our sexual life. Their sufferings are the visible results of parental
vice.

There are many ways of becoming resigned to this unpleasant and terrible
fact. Many people go about seeing nothing or, to be more correct, not
wanting to see anything. This is by far the simplest and cheapest
attitude to adopt. Others cover themselves in the sacred mantle of
prudery, as ridiculous as it is false. They describe the whole condition
of affairs as sinful and are profoundly indignant when brought face to
face with a victim. They close their eyes in reverend abhorrence to this
godless scourge and pray to the Almighty that He--if possible after
their own death--may rain down fire and brimstone as on Sodom and
Gomorrah and so once again make an out standing example of this
shameless section of humanity. Finally, there are those who are well
aware of the terrible results which this scourge will and must bring
about, but they merely shrug their shoulders, fully convinced of their
inability to undertake anything against this peril. Hence matters are
allowed to take their own course.

Undoubtedly all this is very convenient and simple, only it must not be
overlooked that this convenient way of approaching things can have fatal
consequences for our national life. The excuse that other nations are
also not faring any better does not alter the fact of our own
deterioration, except that the feeling of sympathy for other stricken
nations makes our own suffering easier to bear. But the important
question that arises here is: Which nation will be the first to take the
initiative in mastering this scourge, and which nations will succumb to
it? This will be the final upshot of the whole situation. The present is
a period of probation for racial values. The race that fails to come
through the test will simply die out and its place will be taken by the
healthier and stronger races, which will be able to endure greater
hardships. As this problem primarily concerns posterity, it belongs to
that category of which it is said with terrible justification that the
sins of the fathers are visited on their offspring unto the tenth
generation. This is a consequence which follows on an infringement of
the laws of blood and race.

The sin against blood and race is the hereditary sin in this world and
it brings disaster on every nation that commits it.

The attitude towards this one vital problem in pre-War Germany was most
regrettable. What measures were undertaken to arrest the infection of
our youth in the large cities? What was done to put an end to the
contamination and mammonization of sexual life among us? What was done
to fight the resultant spreading of syphilis throughout the whole of our
national life? The reply to this question can best be illustrated by
showing what should have been done.

Instead of tackling this problem in a haphazard way, the authorities
should have realized that the fortunes or misfortunes of future
generations depended on its solution. But to admit this would have
demanded that active measures be carried out in a ruthless manner. The
primary condition would have been that the enlightened attention of the
whole country should be concentrated on this terrible danger, so that
every individual would realize the importance of fighting against it. It
would be futile to impose obligations of a definite character--which are
often difficult to bear--and expect them to become generally effective,
unless the public be thoroughly instructed on the necessity of imposing
and accepting such obligations. This demands a widespread and systematic
method of enlightenment and all other daily problems that might distract
public attention from this great central problem should be relegated to
the background.

In every case where there are exigencies or tasks that seem impossible
to deal with successfully public opinion must be concentrated on the one
problem, under the conviction that the solution of this problem alone is
a matter of life or death. Only in this way can public interest be
aroused to such a pitch as will urge people to combine in a great
voluntary effort and achieve important results.

This fundamental truth applies also to the individual, provided he is
desirous of attaining some great end. He must always concentrate his
efforts to one definitely limited stage of his progress which has to be
completed before the next step be attempted. Those who do not endeavour
to realize their aims step by step and who do not concentrate their
energy in reaching the individual stages, will never attain the final
objective. At some stage or other they will falter and fail. This
systematic way of approaching an objective is an art in itself, and
always calls for the expenditure of every ounce of energy in order to
conquer step after step of the road.

Therefore the most essential preliminary condition necessary for an
attack on such a difficult stage of the human road is that the
authorities should succeed in convincing the masses that the immediate
objective which is now being fought for is the only one that deserves to
be considered and the only one on which everything depends. The broad
masses are never able clearly to see the whole stretch of the road lying
in front of them without becoming tired and thus losing faith in their
ability to complete the task. To a certain extent they will keep the
objective in mind, but they are only able to survey the whole road in
small stages, as in the case of the traveller who knows where his
journey is going to end but who masters the endless stretch far better
by attacking it in degrees. Only in this way can he keep up his
determination to reach the final objective.

It is in this way, with the assistance of every form of propaganda, that
the problem of fighting venereal disease should be placed before the
public--not as a task for the nation but as THE main task. Every
possible means should be employed to bring the truth about this scourge
home to the minds of the people, until the whole nation has been
convinced that everything depends on the solution of this problem; that
is to say, a healthy future or national decay.

Only after such preparatory measures--if necessary spread over a period
of many years--will public attention and public resolution be fully
aroused, and only then can serious and definite measures be undertaken
without running the risk of not being fully understood or of being
suddenly faced with a slackening of the public will. It must be made
clear to all that a serious fight against this scourge calls for vast
sacrifices and an enormous amount of work.

To wage war against syphilis means fighting against prostitution,
against prejudice, against old-established customs, against current
fashion, public opinion, and, last but not least, against false prudery
in certain circles.

The first preliminary condition to be fulfilled before the State can
claim a moral right to fight against all these things is that the young
generation should be afforded facilities for contracting early
marriages. Late marriages have the sanction of a custom which, from
whatever angle we view it, is and will remain a disgrace to humanity.

Prostitution is a disgrace to humanity and cannot be removed simply by
charitable or academic methods. Its restriction and final extermination
presupposes the removal of a whole series of contributory circumstances.
The first remedy must always be to establish such conditions as will
make early marriages possible, especially for young men--for women are,
after all, only passive subjects in this matter.

An illustration of the extent to which people have so often been led
astray nowadays is afforded by the fact that not infrequently one hears
mothers in so-called 'better' circles openly expressing their
satisfaction at having found as a husband for their daughter a man who
has already sown his wild oats, etc. As there is usually so little
shortage in men of this type, the poor girl finds no difficulty in
getting a mate of this description, and the children of this marriage
are a visible result of such supposedly sensible unions.

When one realizes, apart from this, that every possible effort is being
made to hinder the process of procreation and that Nature is being
wilfully cheated of her rights, there remains really only one question:
Why is such an institution as marriage still in existence, and what are
its functions? Is it really nothing better than prostitution? Does our
duty to posterity no longer play any part? Or do people not realize the
nature of the curse they are inflicting on themselves and their
offspring by such criminally foolish neglect of one of the primary laws
of Nature? This is how civilized nations degenerate and gradually
perish.

Marriage is not an end in itself but must serve the greater end, which
is that of increasing and maintaining the human species and the race.
This is its only meaning and purpose.

This being admitted, then it is clear that the institution of marriage
must be judged by the manner in which its allotted function is
fulfilled. Therefore early marriages should be the rule, because thus
the young couple will still have that pristine force which is the
fountain head of a healthy posterity with unimpaired powers of
resistance. Of course early marriages cannot be made the rule unless a
whole series of social measures are first undertaken without which early
marriages cannot be even thought of. In other words, a solution of this
question, which seems a small problem in itself, cannot be brought about
without adopting radical measures to alter the social background. The
importance of such measures ought to be studied and properly estimated,
especially at a time when the so-called 'social' Republic has shown
itself unable to solve the housing problem and thus has made it
impossible for innumerable couples to get married. That sort of policy
prepares the way for the further advance of prostitution.

Another reason why early marriages are impossible is our nonsensical
method of regulating the scale of salaries, which pays far too little
attention to the problem of family support. Prostitution, therefore, can
only be really seriously tackled if, by means of a radical social
reform, early marriage is made easier than hitherto. This is the first
preliminary necessity for the solution of this problem.

Secondly, a whole series of false notions must be eradicated from our
system of bringing up and educating children--things which hitherto no
one seems to have worried about. In our present educational system a
balance will have to be established, first and foremost, between mental
instruction and physical training.

What is known as GYMNASIUM (Grammar School) to-day is a positive insult
to the Greek institution. Our system of education entirely loses sight
of the fact that in the long run a healthy mind can exist only in a
healthy body. This statement, with few exceptions, applies particularly
to the broad masses of the nation.

In the pre-War Germany there was a time when no one took the trouble to
think over this truth. Training of the body was criminally neglected,
the one-sided training of the mind being regarded as a sufficient
guarantee for the nation's greatness. This mistake was destined to show
its effects sooner than had been anticipated. It is not pure chance that
the Bolshevic teaching flourishes in those regions whose degenerate
population has been brought to the verge of starvation, as, for example,
in the case of Central Germany, Saxony, and the Ruhr Valley. In all
these districts there is a marked absence of any serious resistance,
even by the so-called intellectual classes, against this Jewish
contagion. And the simple reason is that the intellectual classes are
themselves physically degenerate, not through privation but through
education. The exclusive intellectualism of the education in vogue among
our upper classes makes them unfit for life's struggle at an epoch in
which physical force and not mind is the dominating factor. Thus they
are neither capable of maintaining themselves nor of making their way in
life. In nearly every case physical disability is the forerunner of
personal cowardice.

The extravagant emphasis laid on purely intellectual education and the
consequent neglect of physical training must necessarily lead to sexual
thoughts in early youth. Those boys whose constitutions have been
trained and hardened by sports and gymnastics are less prone to sexual
indulgence than those stay-at-homes who have been fed exclusively with
mental pabulum. Sound methods of education cannot, however, afford to
disregard this, and we must not forget that the expectations of a
healthy young man from a woman will differ from those of a weakling who
has been prematurely corrupted.

Thus in every branch of our education the day's curriculum must be
arranged so as to occupy a boy's free time in profitable development of
his physical powers. He has no right in those years to loaf about,
becoming a nuisance in public streets and in cinemas; but when his day's
work is done he ought to harden his young body so that his strength may
not be found wanting when the occasion arises. To prepare for this and
to carry it out should be the function of our educational system and not
exclusively to pump in knowledge or wisdom. Our school system must also
rid itself of the notion that the training of the body is a task that
should be left to the individual himself. There is no such thing as
allowing freedom of choice to sin against posterity and thus against the
race.

The fight against pollution of the mind must be waged simultaneously
with the training of the body. To-day the whole of our public life may
be compared to a hot-house for the forced growth of sexual notions and
incitements. A glance at the bill-of-fare provided by our cinemas,
playhouses, and theatres suffices to prove that this is not the right
food, especially for our young people. Hoardings and advertisements
kiosks combine to attract the public in the most vulgar manner. Anyone
who has not altogether lost contact with adolescent yearnings will
realize that all this must have very grave consequences. This seductive
and sensuous atmosphere puts notions into the heads of our youth which,
at their age, ought still to be unknown to them. Unfortunately, the
results of this kind of education can best be seen in our contemporary
youth who are prematurely grown up and therefore old before their time.
The law courts from time to time throw a distressing light on the
spiritual life of our 14- and 15-year old children. Who, therefore, will
be surprised to learn that venereal disease claims its victims at this
age? And is it not a frightful shame to see the number of physically
weak and intellectually spoiled young men who have been introduced to
the mysteries of marriage by the whores of the big cities?

No; those who want seriously to combat prostitution must first of all
assist in removing the spiritual conditions on which it thrives. They
will have to clean up the moral pollution of our city 'culture'
fearlessly and without regard for the outcry that will follow. If we do
not drag our youth out of the morass of their present environment they
will be engulfed by it. Those people who do not want to see these things
are deliberately encouraging them and are guilty of spreading the
effects of prostitution to the future--for the future belongs to our
young generation. This process of cleansing our 'Kultur' will have to be
applied in practically all spheres. The stage, art, literature, the
cinema, the Press and advertisement posters, all must have the stains of
pollution removed and be placed in the service of a national and
cultural idea. The life of the people must be freed from the
asphyxiating perfume of our modern eroticism and also from every unmanly
and prudish form of insincerity. In all these things the aim and the
method must be determined by thoughtful consideration for the
preservation of our national well-being in body and soul. The right to
personal freedom comes second in importance to the duty of maintaining
the race.

Only after such measures have been put into practice can a medical
campaign against this scourge begin with some hope of success. But, here
again, half-measures will be valueless. Far-reaching and important
decisions will have to be made. It would be doing things by halves if
incurables were given the opportunity of infecting one healthy person
after another. This would be that kind of humanitarianism which would
allow hundreds to perish in order to save the suffering of one
individual. The demand that it should be made impossible for defective
people to continue to propagate defective offspring is a demand that is
based on most reasonable grounds, and its proper fulfilment is the most
humane task that mankind has to face. Unhappy and undeserved suffering
in millions of cases will be spared, with the result that there will be
a gradual improvement in national health. A determined decision to act
in this manner will at the same time provide an obstacle against the
further spread of venereal disease. It would then be a case, where
necessary, of mercilessly isolating all incurables--perhaps a barbaric
measure for those unfortunates--but a blessing for the present
generation and for posterity. The temporary pain thus experienced in
this century can and will spare future thousands of generations from
suffering.

The fight against syphilis and its pace-maker, prostitution, is one of
the gigantic tasks of mankind; gigantic, because it is not merely a case
of solving a single problem but the removal of a whole series of evils
which are the contributory causes of this scourge. Disease of the body
in this case is merely the result of a diseased condition of the moral,
social, and racial instincts.

But if for reasons of indolence or cowardice this fight is not fought to
a finish we may imagine what conditions will be like 500 years hence.
Little of God's image will be left in human nature, except to mock the
Creator.

But what has been done in Germany to counteract this scourge? If we
think calmly over the answer we shall find it distressing. It is true
that in governmental circles the terrible and injurious effects of this
disease were well known, but the counter-measures which were officially
adopted were ineffective and a hopeless failure. They tinkered with
cures for the symptoms, wholly regardless of the cause of the disease.
Prostitutes were medically examined and controlled as far as possible,
and when signs of infection were apparent they were sent to hospital.
When outwardly cured, they were once more let loose on humanity.

It is true that 'protective legislation' was introduced which made
sexual intercourse a punishable offence for all those not completely
cured, or those suffering from venereal disease. This legislation was
correct in theory, but in practice it failed completely. In the first
place, in the majority of cases women will decline to appear in court as
witnesses against men who have robbed them of their health. Women would
be exposed far more than men to uncharitable remarks in such cases, and
one can imagine what their position would be if they had been infected
by their own husbands. Should women in that case lay a charge? Or what
should they do?

In the case of the man there is the additional fact that he frequently
is unfortunate enough to run up against this danger when he is under the
influence of alcohol. His condition makes it impossible for him to
assess the qualities of his 'amorous beauty,' a fact which is well known
to every diseased prostitute and makes them single out men in this ideal
condition for preference. The result is that the unfortunate man is not
able to recollect later on who his compassionate benefactress was, which
is not surprising in cities like Berlin and Munich. Many of such cases
are visitors from the provinces who, held speechless and enthralled by
the magic charm of city life, become an easy prey for prostitutes.

In the final analysis who is able to say whether he has been infected or
not?

Are there not innumerable cases on record where an apparently cured
person has a relapse and does untold harm without knowing it?

Therefore in practice the results of these legislative measures are
negative. The same applies to the control of prostitution, and, finally,
even medical treatment and cure are nowadays unsafe and doubtful. One
thing only is certain. The scourge has spread further and further in
spite of all measures, and this alone suffices definitely to stamp and
substantiate their inefficiency.

Everything else that was undertaken was just as inefficient as it was
absurd. The spiritual prostitution of the people was neither arrested
nor was anything whatsoever undertaken in this direction.

Those, however, who do not regard this subject as a serious one would do
well to examine the statistical data of the spread of this disease,
study its growth in the last century and contemplate the possibilities
of its further development. The ordinary observer, unless he were
particularly stupid, would experience a cold shudder if the position
were made clear to him.

The half-hearted and wavering attitude adopted in pre-War Germany
towards this iniquitous condition can assuredly be taken as a visible
sign of national decay. When the courage to fight for one's own health
is no longer in evidence, then the right to live in this world of
struggle also ceases.

One of the visible signs of decay in the old REICH was the slow setback
which the general cultural level experienced. But by 'Kultur' I do not
mean that which we nowadays style as civilization, which on the contrary
may rather be regarded as inimical to the spiritual elevation of life.

At the turn of the last century a new element began to make its
appearance in our world. It was an element which had been hitherto
absolutely unknown and foreign to us. In former times there had
certainly been offences against good taste; but these were mostly
departures from the orthodox canons of art, and posterity could
recognize a certain historical value in them. But the new products
showed signs, not only of artistic aberration but of spiritual
degeneration. Here, in the cultural sphere, the signs of the coming
collapse first became manifest.

The Bolshevization of art is the only cultural form of life and the only
spiritual manifestation of which Bolshevism is capable.

Anyone to whom this statement may appear strange need only take a glance
at those lucky States which have become Bolshevized and, to his horror,
he will there recognize those morbid monstrosities which have been
produced by insane and degenerate people. All those artistic aberrations
which are classified under the names of cubism and dadism, since the
opening of the present century, are manifestations of art which have
come to be officially recognized by the State itself. This phenomenon
made its appearance even during the short-lived period of the Soviet
Republic in Bavaria. At that time one might easily have recognized how
all the official posters, propagandist pictures and newspapers, etc.,
showed signs not only of political but also of cultural decadence.

About sixty years ago a political collapse such as we are experiencing
to-day would have been just as inconceivable as the cultural decline
which has been manifested in cubist and futurist pictures ever since
1900. Sixty years ago an exhibition of so-called dadistic 'experiences'
would have been an absolutely preposterous idea. The organizers of such
an exhibition would then have been certified for the lunatic asylum,
whereas, to-day they are appointed presidents of art societies. At that
time such an epidemic would never have been allowed to spread. Public
opinion would not have tolerated it, and the Government would not have
remained silent; for it is the duty of a Government to save its people
from being stampeded into such intellectual madness. But intellectual
madness would have resulted from a development that followed the
acceptance of this kind of art. It would have marked one of the worst
changes in human history; for it would have meant that a retrogressive
process had begun to take place in the human brain, the final stages of
which would be unthinkable.

If we study the course of our cultural life during the last twenty-five
years we shall be astonished to note how far we have already gone in
this process of retrogression. Everywhere we find the presence of those
germs which give rise to protuberant growths that must sooner or later
bring about the ruin of our culture. Here we find undoubted symptoms of
slow corruption; and woe to the nations that are no longer able to bring
that morbid process to a halt.

In almost all the various fields of German art and culture those morbid
phenomena may be observed. Here everything seems to have passed the
culminating point of its excellence and to have entered the curve of a
hasty decline. At the beginning of the century the theatres seemed
already degenerating and ceasing to be cultural factors, except the
Court theatres, which opposed this prostitution of the national art.
With these exceptions, and also a few other decent institutions, the
plays produced on the stage were of such a nature that the people would
have benefited by not visiting them at all. A sad symptom of decline was
manifested by the fact that in the case of many 'art centres' the sign
was posted on the entrance doors: FOR ADULTS ONLY.

Let it be borne in mind that these precautions had to be taken in regard
to institutions whose main purpose should have been to promote the
education of the youth and not merely to provide amusement for
sophisticated adults. What would the great dramatists of other times
have said of such measures and, above all, of the conditions which made
these measures necessary? How exasperated Schiller would have been, and
how Goethe would have turned away in disgust!

But what are Schiller, Goethe and Shakespeare when confronted with the
heroes of our modern German literature? Old and frowsy and outmoded and
finished. For it was typical of this epoch that not only were its own
products bad but that the authors of such products and their backers
reviled everything that had really been great in the past. This is a
phenomenon that is very characteristic of such epochs. The more vile and
miserable are the men and products of an epoch, the more they will hate
and denigrate the ideal achievements of former generations. What these
people would like best would be completely to destroy every vestige of
the past, in order to do away with that sole standard of comparison
which prevents their own daubs from being looked upon as art. Therefore
the more lamentable and wretched are the products of each new era, the
more it will try to obliterate all the memorials of the past. But any
real innovation that is for the benefit of mankind can always face
comparison with the best of what has gone before; and frequently it
happens that those monuments of the past guarantee the acceptance of
those modern productions. There is no fear that modern productions of
real worth will look pale and worthless beside the monuments of the
past. What is contributed to the general treasury of human culture often
fulfils a part that is necessary in order to keep the memory of old
achievements alive, because this memory alone is the standard whereby
our own works are properly appreciated. Only those who have nothing of
value to give to the world will oppose everything that already exists
and would have it destroyed at all costs.

And this holds good not only for new phenomena in the cultural domain
but also in politics. The more inferior new revolutionary movements are,
the more will they try to denigrate the old forms. Here again the desire
to pawn off their shoddy products as great and original achievements
leads them into a blind hatred against everything which belongs to the
past and which is superior to their own work. As long as the historical
memory of Frederick the Great, for instance, still lives, Frederick
Ebert can arouse only a problematic admiration. The relation of the hero
of Sans Souci to the former republican of Bremen may be compared to that
of the sun to the moon; for the moon can shine only after the direct
rays of the sun have left the earth. Thus we can readily understand why
it is that all the new moons in human history have hated the fixed
stars. In the field of politics, if Fate should happen temporarily to
place the ruling power in the hands of those nonentities they are not
only eager to defile and revile the past but at the same time they will
use all means to evade criticism of their own acts. The Law for the
Protection of the Republic, which the new German State enacted, may be
taken as one example of this truth.

One has good grounds to be suspicious in regard to any new idea, or any
doctrine or philosophy, any political or economical movement, which
tries to deny everything that the past has produced or to present it as
inferior and worthless. Any renovation which is really beneficial to
human progress will always have to begin its constructive work at the
level where the last stones of the structure have been laid. It need not
blush to utilize those truths which have already been established; for
all human culture, as well as man himself, is only the result of one
long line of development, where each generation has contributed but one
stone to the building of the whole structure. The meaning and purpose of
revolutions cannot be to tear down the whole building but to take away
what has not been well fitted into it or is unsuitable, and to rebuild
the free space thus caused, after which the main construction of the
building will be carried on.

Thus alone will it be possible to talk of human progress; for otherwise
the world would never be free of chaos, since each generation would feel
entitled to reject the past and to destroy all the work of the past, as
the necessary preliminary to any new work of its own.

The saddest feature of the condition in which our whole civilization
found itself before the War was the fact that it was not only barren of
any creative force to produce its own works of art and civilization but
that it hated, defiled and tried to efface the memory of the superior
works produced in the past. About the end of the last century people
were less interested in producing new significant works of their
own--particularly in the fields of dramatic art and literature--than in
defaming the best works of the past and in presenting them as inferior
and antiquated. As if this period of disgraceful decadence had the
slightest capacity to produce anything of superior quality! The efforts
made to conceal the past from the eyes of the present afforded clear
evidence of the fact that these apostles of the future acted from an
evil intent. These symptoms should have made it clear to all that it was
not a question of new, though wrong, cultural ideas but of a process
which was undermining the very foundations of civilization. It threw the
artistic feeling which had hitherto been quite sane into utter
confusion, thus spiritually preparing the way for political Bolshevism.
If the creative spirit of the Periclean age be manifested in the
Parthenon, then the Bolshevist era is manifested through its cubist
grimace.

In this connection attention must be drawn once again to the want of
courage displayed by one section of our people, namely, by those who, in
virtue of their education and position, ought to have felt themselves
obliged to take up a firm stand against this outrage on our culture. But
they refrained from offering serious resistance and surrendered to what
they considered the inevitable. This abdication of theirs was due,
however, to sheer funk lest the apostles of Bolshevist art might raise a
rumpus; for those apostles always violently attacked everyone who was
not ready to recognize them as the choice spirits of artistic creation,
and they tried to strangle all opposition by saying that it was the
product of philistine and backwater minds. People trembled in fear lest
they might be accused by these yahoos and swindlers of lacking artistic
appreciation, as if it would have been a disgrace not to be able to
understand and appreciate the effusions of those mental degenerates or
arrant rogues. Those cultural disciples, however, had a very simple way
of presenting their own effusions as works of the highest quality. They
offered incomprehensible and manifestly crazy productions to their
amazed contemporaries as what they called 'an inner experience'. Thus
they forestalled all adverse criticism at very little cost indeed. Of
course nobody ever doubted that there could have been inner experiences
like that, but some doubt ought to have arisen as to whether or not
there was any justification for exposing these hallucinations of
psychopaths or criminals to the sane portion of human society. The works
produced by a Moritz von Schwind or a Bo"cklin were also externalizations
of an inner experience, but these were the experiences of divinely
gifted artists and not of buffoons.

This situation afforded a good opportunity of studying the miserable
cowardliness of our so-called intellectuals who shirked the duty of
offering serious resistance to the poisoning of the sound instincts of
our people. They left it to the people themselves to formulate their own
attitude towards his impudent nonsense. Lest they might be considered as
understanding nothing of art, they accepted every caricature of art,
until they finally lost the power of judging what is really good or bad.

Taken all in all, there were superabundant symptoms to show that a
diseased epoch had begun.

Still another critical symptom has to be considered. In the course of
the nineteenth century our towns and cities began more and more to lose
their character as centres of civilization and became more and more
centres of habitation. In our great modern cities the proletariat does
not show much attachment to the place where it lives. This feeling
results from the fact that their dwelling-place is nothing but an
accidental abode, and that feeling is also partly due to the frequent
change of residence which is forced upon them by social conditions.
There is no time for the growth of any attachment to the town in which
they live. But another reason lies in the cultural barrenness and
superficiality of our modern cities. At the time of the German Wars of
Liberation our German towns and cities were not only small in number but
also very modest in size. The few that could really be called great
cities were mostly the residential cities of princes; as such they had
almost always a definite cultural value and also a definite cultural
aspect. Those few towns which had more than fifty thousand inhabitants
were, in comparison with modern cities of the same size, rich in
scientific and artistic treasures. At the time when Munich had not more
than sixty thousand souls it was already well on the way to become one
of the first German centres of art. Nowadays almost every industrial
town has a population at least as large as that, without having anything
of real value to call its own. They are agglomerations of tenement
houses and congested dwelling barracks, and nothing else. It would be a
miracle if anybody should grow sentimentally attached to such a
meaningless place. Nobody can grow attached to a place which offers only
just as much or as little as any other place would offer, which has no
character of its own and where obviously pains have been taken to avoid
everything that might have any resemblance to an artistic appearance.

But this is not all. Even the great cities become more barren of real
works of art the more they increase in population. They assume more and
more a neutral atmosphere and present the same aspect, though on a
larger scale, as the wretched little factory towns. Everything that our
modern age has contributed to the civilization of our great cities is
absolutely deficient. All our towns are living on the glory and the
treasures of the past. If we take away from the Munich of to-day
everything that was created under Ludwig II we should be horror-stricken
to see how meagre has been the output of important artistic creations
since that time. One might say much the same of Berlin and most of our
other great towns.

But the following is the essential thing to be noticed: Our great modern
cities have no outstanding monuments that dominate the general aspect of
the city and could be pointed to as the symbols of a whole epoch. Yet
almost every ancient town had a monument erected to its glory. It was
not in private dwellings that the characteristic art of ancient cities
was displayed but in the public monuments, which were not meant to have
a transitory interest but an enduring one. And this was because they did
not represent the wealth of some individual citizen but the greatness
and importance of the community. It was under this inspiration that
those monuments arose which bound the individual inhabitants to their
own town in a manner that is often almost incomprehensible to us to-day.
What struck the eye of the individual citizen was not a number of
mediocre private buildings, but imposing structures that belonged to the
whole community. In contradistinction to these, private dwellings were
of only very secondary importance indeed.

When we compare the size of those ancient public buildings with that of
the private dwellings belonging to the same epoch then we can understand
the great importance which was given to the principle that those works
which reflected and affected the life of the community should take
precedence of all others.

Among the broken arches and vast spaces that are covered with ruins from
the ancient world the colossal riches that still arouse our wonder have
not been left to us from the commercial palaces of these days but from
the temples of the Gods and the public edifices that belonged to the
State. The community itself was the owner of those great edifices. Even
in the pomp of Rome during the decadence it was not the villas and
palaces of some citizens that filled the most prominent place but rather
the temples and the baths, the stadia, the circuses, the aqueducts, the
basilicas, etc., which belonged to the State and therefore to the people
as a whole.

In medieval Germany also the same principle held sway, although the
artistic outlook was quite different. In ancient times the theme that
found its expression in the Acropolis or the Pantheon was now clothed in
the forms of the Gothic Cathedral. In the medieval cities these
monumental structures towered gigantically above the swarm of smaller
buildings with their framework walls of wood and brick. And they remain
the dominant feature of these cities even to our own day, although they
are becoming more and more obscured by the apartment barracks. They
determine the character and appearance of the locality. Cathedrals,
city-halls, corn exchanges, defence towers, are the outward expression
of an idea which has its counterpart only in the ancient world.

The dimensions and quality of our public buildings to-day are in
deplorable contrast to the edifices that represent private interests. If
a similar fate should befall Berlin as befell Rome future generations
might gaze upon the ruins of some Jewish department stores or
joint-stock hotels and think that these were the characteristic
expressions of the culture of our time. In Berlin itself, compare the
shameful disproportion between the buildings which belong to the REICH
and those which have been erected for the accommodation of trade and
finance.

The credits that are voted for public buildings are in most cases
inadequate and really ridiculous. They are not built as structures that
were meant to last but mostly for the purpose of answering the need of
the moment. No higher idea influenced those who commissioned such
buildings. At the time the Berlin Schloss was built it had a quite
different significance from what the new library has for our time,
seeing that one battleship alone represents an expenditure of about
sixty million marks, whereas less than half that sum was allotted for
the building of the Reichstag, which is the most imposing structure
erected for the REICH and which should have been built to last for ages.
Yet, in deciding the question of internal decoration, the Upper House
voted against the use of stone and ordered that the walls should be
covered with stucco. For once, however, the parliamentarians made an
appropriate decision on that occasion; for plaster heads would be out of
place between stone walls.

The community as such is not the dominant characteristic of our
contemporary cities, and therefore it is not to be wondered at if the
community does not find itself architecturally represented. Thus we must
eventually arrive at a veritable civic desert which will at last be
reflected in the total indifference of the individual citizen towards
his own country.

This is also a sign of our cultural decay and general break-up. Our era
is entirely preoccupied with little things which are to no purpose, or
rather it is entirely preoccupied in the service of money. Therefore it
is not to be wondered at if, with the worship of such an idol, the sense
of heroism should entirely disappear. But the present is only reaping
what the past has sown.

All these symptoms which preceded the final collapse of the Second
Empire must be attributed to the lack of a definite and uniformly
accepted WELTANSCHAUUNG and the general uncertainty of outlook
consequent on that lack. This uncertainty showed itself when the great
questions of the time had to be considered one after another and a
decisive policy adopted towards them. This lack is also accountable for
the habit of doing everything by halves, beginning with the educational
system, the shilly-shally, the reluctance to undertake responsibilites
and, finally, the cowardly tolerance of evils that were even admitted to
be destructive. Visionary humanitarianisms became the fashion. In weakly
submitting to these aberrations and sparing the feelings of the
individual, the future of millions of human beings was sacrificed.

An examination of the religious situation before the War shows that the
general process of disruption had extended to this sphere also. A great
part of the nation itself had for a long time already ceased to have any
convictions of a uniform and practical character in their ideological
outlook on life. In this matter the point of primary importance was by
no means the number of people who renounced their church membership but
rather the widespread indifference. While the two Christian
denominations maintained missions in Asia and Africa, for the purpose of
securing new adherents to the Faith, these same denominations were
losing millions and millions of their adherents at home in Europe. These
former adherents either gave up religion wholly as a directive force in
their lives or they adopted their own interpretation of it. The
consequences of this were specially felt in the moral life of the
country. In parenthesis it may be remarked that the progress made by the
missions in spreading the Christian Faith abroad was only quite modest
in comparison with the spread of Mohammedanism.

It must be noted too that the attack on the dogmatic principles
underlying ecclesiastical teaching increased steadily in violence. And
yet this human world of ours would be inconceivable without the
practical existence of a religious belief. The great masses of a nation
are not composed of philosophers. For the masses of the people,
especially faith is absolutely the only basis of a moral outlook on
life. The various substitutes that have been offered have not shown any
results that might warrant us in thinking that they might usefully
replace the existing denominations. But if religious teaching and
religious faith were once accepted by the broad masses as active forces
in their lives, then the absolute authority of the doctrines of faith
would be the foundation of all practical effort. There may be a few
hundreds of thousands of superior men who can live wisely and
intelligently without depending on the general standards that prevail in
everyday life, but the millions of others cannot do so. Now the place
which general custom fills in everyday life corresponds to that of
general laws in the State and dogma in religion. The purely spiritual
idea is of itself a changeable thing that may be subjected to endless
interpretations. It is only through dogma that it is given a precise and
concrete form without which it could not become a living faith.
Otherwise the spiritual idea would never become anything more than a
mere metaphysical concept, or rather a philosophical opinion.
Accordingly the attack against dogma is comparable to an attack against
the general laws on which the State is founded. And so this attack would
finally lead to complete political anarchy if it were successful, just
as the attack on religion would lead to a worthless religious nihilism.

The political leader should not estimate the worth of a religion by
taking some of its shortcomings into account, but he should ask himself
whether there be any practical substitute in a view which is
demonstrably better. Until such a substitute be available only fools and
criminals would think of abolishing the existing religion.

Undoubtedly no small amount of blame for the present unsatisfactory
religious situation must be attributed to those who have encumbered the
ideal of religion with purely material accessories and have thus given
rise to an utterly futile conflict between religion and science. In this
conflict victory will nearly always be on the side of science, even
though after a bitter struggle, while religion will suffer heavily in
the eyes of those who cannot penetrate beneath the mere superficial
aspects of science.

But the greatest damage of all has come from the practice of debasing
religion as a means that can be exploited to serve political interests,
or rather commercial interests. The impudent and loud-mouthed liars who
do this make their profession of faith before the whole world in
stentorian tones so that all poor mortals may hear--not that they are
ready to die for it if necessary but rather that they may live all the
better. They are ready to sell their faith for any political QUID PRO
QUO. For ten parliamentary mandates they would ally themselves with the
Marxists, who are the mortal foes of all religion. And for a seat in the
Cabinet they would go the length of wedlock with the devil, if the
latter had not still retained some traces of decency.

If religious life in pre-war Germany had a disagreeable savour for the
mouths of many people this was because Christianity had been lowered to
base uses by political parties that called themselves Christian and
because of the shameful way in which they tried to identify the Catholic
Faith with a political party.

This substitution was fatal. It procured some worthless parliamentary
mandates for the party in question, but the Church suffered damage
thereby.

The consequences of that situation had to be borne by the whole nation;
for the laxity that resulted in religious life set in at a juncture when
everything was beginning to lose hold and vacillate and the traditional
foundations of custom and of morality were threatening to fall asunder.

Yet all those cracks and clefts in the social organism might not have
been dangerous if no grave burdens had been laid upon it; but they
became disastrous when the internal solidarity of the nation was the
most important factor in withstanding the storm of big events.

In the political field also observant eyes might have noticed certain
anomalies of the REICH which foretold disaster unless some alteration
and correction took place in time. The lack of orientation in German
policy, both domestic and foreign, was obvious to everyone who was not
purposely blind. The best thing that could be said about the practice of
making compromises is that it seemed outwardly to be in harmony with
Bismarck's axiom that 'politics is the art of the possible'. But
Bismarck was a slightly different man from the Chancellors who followed
him. This difference allowed the former to apply that formula to the
very essence of his policy, while in the mouths of the others it took on
an utterly different significance. When he uttered that phrase Bismarck
meant to say that in order to attain a definite political end all
possible means should be employed or at least that all possibilities
should be tried. But his successors see in that phrase only a solemn
declaration that one is not necessarily bound to have political
principles or any definite political aims at all. And the political
leaders of the REICH at that time had no far-seeing policy. Here, again,
the necessary foundation was lacking, namely, a definite
WELTANSCHAUUNG, and these leaders also lacked that clear insight into
the laws of political evolution which is a necessary quality in
political leadership.

Many people who took a gloomy view of things at that time condemned the
lack of ideas and lack of orientation which were evident in directing
the policy of the REICH. They recognized the inner weakness and futility
of this policy. But such people played only a secondary role in
politics. Those who had the Government of the country in their hands
were quite as indifferent to principles of civil wisdom laid down by
thinkers like Houston Stewart Chamberlain as our political leaders now
are. These people are too stupid to think for themselves, and they have
too much self-conceit to take from others the instruction which they
need. Oxenstierna (Note 14a) gave expression to a truth which has lasted
since time immemorial, when he said that the world is governed by only a
particle of wisdom. Almost every civil servant of councillor rank might
naturally be supposed to possess only an atom or so belonging to this
particle. But since Germany became a Republic even this modicum is
wanting. And that is why they had to promulgate the Law for the Defence
of the Republic, which prohibits the holding of such views or expressing
them. It was fortunate for Oxenstierna that he lived at that time and
not in this wise Republic of our time.

[Note 14a. Swedish Chancellor who took over the reins of Government after
the death of Gustavus Adolphus]

Already before the War that institution which should have represented
the strength of the Reich--the Parliament, the Reichstag--was widely
recognized as its weakest feature. Cowardliness and fear of shouldering
responsibilities were associated together there in a perfect fashion.

One of the silliest notions that one hears expressed to-day is that in
Germany the parliamentary institution has ceased to function since the
Revolution. This might easily be taken to imply that the case was
different before the Revolution. But in reality the parliamentary
institution never functioned except to the detriment of the country. And
it functioned thus in those days when people saw nothing or did not wish
to see anything. The German downfall is to be attributed in no small
degree to this institution. But that the catastrophe did not take place
sooner is not to be credited to the Parliament but rather to those who
opposed the influence of this institution which, during peace times, was
digging the grave of the German Nation and the German REICH.

From the immense mass of devastating evils that were due either directly
or indirectly to the Parliament I shall select one the most intimately
typical of this institution which was the most irresponsible of all
time. The evil I speak of was seen in the appalling shilly-shally and
weakness in conducting the internal and external affairs of the REICH.
It was attributable in the first place to the action of the Reichstag
and was one of the principal causes of the political collapse.

Everything subject to the influence of Parliament was done by halves, no
matter from what aspect you may regard it.

The foreign policy of the REICH in the matter of alliances was an
example of shilly-shally. They wished to maintain peace, but in doing so
they steered straight. into war.

Their Polish policy was also carried out by half-measures. It resulted
neither in a German triumph nor Polish conciliation, and it made enemies
of the Russians.

They tried to solve the Alsace-Lorraine question through half-measures.
Instead of crushing the head of the French hydra once and for all with
the mailed fist and granting Alsace-Lorraine equal rights with the other
German States, they did neither the one nor the other. Anyhow, it was
impossible for them to do otherwise, for they had among their ranks the
greatest traitors to the country, such as Herr Wetterle' of the Centre
Party.

But still the country might have been able to bear with all this
provided the half-measure policy had not victimized that force in which,
as the last resort, the existence of the Empire depended: namely, the
Army.

The crime committed by the so-called German Reichstag in this regard was
sufficient of itself to draw down upon it the curses of the German
Nation for all time. On the most miserable of pretexts these
parliamentary party henchmen filched from the hands of the nation and
threw away the weapons which were needed to maintain its existence and
therewith defend the liberty and independence of our people. If the
graves on the plains of Flanders were to open to-day the bloodstained
accusers would arise, hundreds of thousands of our best German youth who
were driven into the arms of death by those conscienceless parliamentary
ruffians who were either wrongly educated for their task or only
half-educated. Those youths, and other millions of the killed and
mutilated, were lost to the Fatherland simply and solely in order that a
few hundred deceivers of the people might carry out their political
manoeuvres and their exactions or even treasonably pursue their
doctrinaire theories.

By means of the Marxist and democratic Press, the Jews spread the
colossal falsehood about 'German Militarism' throughout the world and
tried to inculpate Germany by every possible means, while at the same
time the Marxist and democratic parties refused to assent to the
measures that were necessary for the adequate training of our national
defence forces. The appalling crime thus committed by these people ought
to have been obvious to everybody who foresaw that in case of war the
whole nation would have to be called to arms and that, because of the
mean huckstering of these noble 'representatives of the people', as they
called themselves, millions of Germans would have to face the enemy
ill-equipped and insufficiently trained. But even apart from the
consequences of the crude and brutal lack of conscience which these
parliamentarian rascals displayed, it was quite clear that the lack of
properly trained soldiers at the beginning of a war would most probably
lead to the loss of such a war; and this probability was confirmed in a
most terrible way during the course of the world war.

Therefore the German people lost the struggle for the freedom and
independence of their country because of the half-hearted and defective
policy employed during times of peace in the organization and training
of the defensive strength of the nation.

The number of recruits trained for the land forces was too small; but
the same half-heartedness was shown in regard to the navy and made this
weapon of national self-preservation more or less ineffective.
Unfortunately, even the naval authorities themselves were contaminated
with this spirit of half-heartedness. The tendency to build the ship on
the stocks somewhat smaller than that just launched by the British did
not show much foresight and less genius. A fleet which cannot be brought
to the same numerical strength as that of the probable enemy ought to
compensate for this inferiority by the superior fighting power of the
individual ship. It is the weight of the fighting power that counts and
not any sort of traditional quality. As a matter of fact, modern
technical development is so advanced and so well proportioned among the
various civilized States that it must be looked on as practically
impossible for one Power to build vessels which would have a superior
fighting quality to that of the vessels of equal size built by the other
Powers. But it is even less feasible to build vessels of smaller
displacement which will be superior in action to those of larger
displacement.

As a matter of fact, the smaller proportions of the German vessels could
be maintained only at the expense of speed and armament. The phrase used
to justify this policy was in itself an evidence of the lack of logical
thinking on the part of the naval authorities who were in charge of
these matters in times of peace. They declared that the German guns were
definitely superior to the British 30.5 cm. as regards striking
efficiency.

But that was just why they should have adopted the policy of building
30.5 cm. guns also; for it ought to have been their object not to
achieve equality but superiority in fighting strength. If that were not
so then it would have been superfluous to equip the land forces with 42
cm. mortars; for the German 21 cm. mortar could be far superior to any
high-angle guns which the French possessed at that time and since the
fortresses could probably have been taken by means of 30.5 cm. mortars.
The army authorities unfortunately failed to do so. If they refrained
from assuring superior efficiency in the artillery as in the velocity,
this was because of the fundamentally false 'principle of risk' which
they adopted. The naval authorities, already in times of peace,
renounced the principle of attack and thus had to follow a defensive
policy from the very beginning of the War. But by this attitude they
renounced also the chances of final success, which can be achieved only
by an offensive policy.

A vessel with slower speed and weaker armament will be crippled and
battered by an adversary that is faster and stronger and can frequently
shoot from a favourable distance. A large number of cruisers have been
through bitter experiences in this matter. How wrong were the ideas
prevalent among the naval authorities in times of peace was proved
during the War. They were compelled to modify the armament of the old
vessels and to equip the new ones with better armament whenever there
was a chance to do so. If the German vessels in the Battle of the
Skagerrak had been of equal size, the same armament and the same speed
as the English, the British Fleet would have gone down under the tempest
of the German 38 centimeter shells, which hit their aims more accurately
and were more effective.

Japan had followed a different kind of naval policy. There, care was
principally taken to create with every single new vessel a fighting
force that would be superior to those of the eventual adversaries. But,
because of this policy, it was afterwards possible to use the fleet for
the offensive.

While the army authorities refused to adopt such fundamentally erroneous
principles, the navy--which unfortunately had more representatives in
Parliament--succumbed to the spirit that ruled there. The navy was not
organized on a strong basis, and it was later used in an unsystematic
and irresolute way. The immortal glory which the navy won, in spite of
these drawbacks, must be entirely credited to the good work and the
efficiency and incomparable heroism of officers and crews. If the former
commanders-in-chief had been inspired with the same kind of genius all
the sacrifices would not have been in vain.

It was probably the very parliamentarian skill displayed by the chief of
the navy during the years of peace which later became the cause of the
fatal collapse, since parliamentarian considerations had begun to play a
more important role in the construction of the navy than fighting
considerations. The irresolution, the weakness and the failure to adopt
a logically consistent policy, which is typical of the parliamentary
system, contaminated the naval authorities.

As I have already emphasized, the military authorities did not allow
themselves to be led astray by such fundamentally erroneous ideas.
Ludendorff, who was then a Colonel in the General Staff, led a desperate
struggle against the criminal vacillations with which the Reichstag
treated the most vital problems of the nation and in most cases voted
against them. If the fight which this officer then waged remained
unsuccessful this must be debited to the Parliament and partly also to
the wretched and weak attitude of the Chancellor, Bethmann-Hollweg.

Yet those who are responsible for Germany's collapse do not hesitate now
to lay all the blame on the shoulders of the one man who took a firm
stand against the neglectful manner in which the interests of the nation
were managed. But one falsehood more or less makes no difference to
these congenital tricksters.

Anybody who thinks of all the sacrifices which this nation has had to
bear, as a result of the criminal neglect of those irresponsible
individuals; anybody who thinks of the number of those who died or were
maimed unnecessarily; anybody who thinks of the deplorable shame and
dishonour which has been heaped upon us and of the illimitable distress
into which our people are now plunged--anybody who realizes that in
order to prepare the way to a few seats in Parliament for some
unscrupulous place-hunters and arrivists will understand that such
hirelings can be called by no other name than that of rascal and
criminal; for otherwise those words could have no meaning. In comparison
with traitors who betrayed the nation's trust every other kind of
twister may be looked upon as an honourable man.

It was a peculiar feature of the situation that all the real faults of
the old Germany were exposed to the public gaze only when the inner
solidarity of the nation could be injured by doing so. Then, indeed,
unpleasant truths were openly proclaimed in the ears of the broad
masses, while many other things were at other times shamefully hushed up
or their existence simply denied, especially at times when an open
discussion of such problems might have led to an improvement in their
regard. The higher government authorities knew little or nothing of the
nature and use of propaganda in such matters. Only the Jew knew that by
an able and persistent use of propaganda heaven itself can be presented
to the people as if it were hell and, vice versa, the most miserable
kind of life can be presented as if it were paradise. The Jew knew this
and acted accordingly. But the German, or rather his Government, did not
have the slightest suspicion of it. During the War the heaviest of
penalties had to be paid for that ignorance.

Over against the innumerable drawbacks which I have mentioned here and
which affected German life before the War there were many outstanding
features on the positive side. If we take an impartial survey we must
admit that most of our drawbacks were in great measure prevalent also in
other countries and among the other nations, and very often in a worse
form than with us; whereas among us there were many real advantages
which the other did not have.

The leading phase of Germany's superiority arose from the fact that,
almost alone among all the other European nations, the German nation had
made the strongest effort to preserve the national character of its
economic structure and for this reason was less subject than other
countries to the power of international finance, though indeed there
were many untoward symptoms in this regard also.

And yet this superiority was a perilous one and turned out later to be
one of the chief causes of the world war.

But even if we disregard this advantage of national independence in
economic matters there were certain other positive features of our
social and political life which were of outstanding excellence. These
features were represented by three institutions which were constant
sources of regeneration. In their respective spheres they were models of
perfection and were partly unrivalled.

The first of these was the statal form as such and the manner in which
it had been developed for Germany in modern times. Of course we must
except those monarchs who, as human beings, were subject to the failings
which afflict this life and its children. If we were not so tolerant in
these matters, then the case of the present generation would be
hopeless; for if we take into consideration the personal capabilities
and character of the representative figures in our present regime it
would be difficult to imagine a more modest level of intelligence and
moral character. If we measure the 'value' of the German Revolution by
the personal worth and calibre of the individuals whom this revolution
has presented to the German people since November 1918 then we may feel
ashamed indeed in thinking of the judgment which posterity will pass on
these people, when the Law for the Protection of the Republic can no
longer silence public opinion. Coming generations will surely decide
that the intelligence and integrity of our new German leaders were in
adverse ratio to their boasting and their vices.

It must be admitted that the monarchy had become alien in spirit to many
citizens and especially the broad masses. This resulted from the fact
that the monarchs were not always surrounded by the highest
intelligence--so to say--and certainly not always by persons of the most
upright character. Unfortunately many of them preferred flatterers to
honest-spoken men and hence received their 'information' from the
former. This was a source of grave danger at a time when the world was
passing through a period in which many of the old conditions were
changing and when this change was affecting even the traditions of the
Court.

The average man or woman could not have felt a wave of enthusiasm
surging within the breast when, for example, at the turn of the century,
a princess in uniform and on horseback had the soldiers file past her on
parade. Those high circles had apparently no idea of the impression
which such a parade made on the minds of ordinary people; else such
unfortunate occurrences would not have taken place. The sentimental
humanitarianism--not always very sincere--which was professed in those
high circles was often more repulsive than attractive. When, for
instance, the Princess X condescended to taste the products of a soup
kitchen and found them excellent, as usual, such a gesture might have
made an excellent impression in times long past, but on this occasion it
had the opposite effect to what was intended. For even if we take it for
granted that Her Highness did not have the slightest idea, that on the
day she sampled it, the food was not quite the same as on other days, it
sufficed that the people knew it. Even the best of intentions thus
became an object of ridicule or a cause of exasperation.

Descriptions of the proverbial frugality practised by the monarch, his
much too early rise in the morning and the drudgery he had to go through
all day long until late at night, and especially the constantly
expressed fears lest he might become undernourished--all this gave rise
to ominous expression on the part of the people. Nobody was keen to know
what and how much the monarch ate or drank. Nobody grudged him a full
meal, or the necessary amount of sleep. Everybody was pleased when the
monarch, as a man and a personality, brought honour on his family and
his country and fulfilled his duties as a sovereign. All the legends
which were circulated about him helped little and did much damage.

These and such things, however, are only mere bagatelle. What was much
worse was the feeling, which spread throughout large sections of the
nation, that the affairs of the individual were being taken care of from
above and that he did not need to bother himself with them. As long as
the Government was really good, or at least moved by goodwill, no
serious objections could be raised.

But the country was destined to disaster when the old Government, which
had at least striven for the best, became replaced by a new regime which
was not of the same quality. Then the docile obedience and infantile
credulity which formerly offered no resistance was bound to be one of
the most fatal evils that can be imagined.

But against these and other defects there were certain qualities which
undoubtedly had a positive effect.

First of all the monarchical form of government guarantees stability in
the direction of public affairs and safeguards public offices from the
speculative turmoil of ambitious politicians. Furthermore, the venerable
tradition which this institution possesses arouses a feeling which gives
weight to the monarchical authority. Beyond this there is the fact that
the whole corps of officials, and the army in particular, are raised
above the level of political party obligations. And still another
positive feature was that the supreme rulership of the State was
embodied in the monarch, as an individual person, who could serve as the
symbol of responsibility, which a monarch has to bear more seriously
than any anonymous parliamentary majority. Indeed, the proverbial
honesty and integrity of the German administration must be attributed
chiefly to this fact. Finally, the monarchy fulfilled a high cultural
function among the German people, which made amends for many of its
defects. The German residential cities have remained, even to our time,
centres of that artistic spirit which now threatens to disappear and is
becoming more and more materialistic. The German princes gave a great
deal of excellent and practical encouragement to art and science,
especially during the nineteenth century. Our present age certainly has
nothing of equal worth.

During that process of disintegration which was slowly extending
throughout the social order the most positive force of resistance was
that offered by the army. This was the strongest source of education
which the German people possessed. For that reason all the hatred of our
enemies was directed against the paladin of our national
self-preservation and our liberty. The strongest testimony in favour of
this unique institution is the fact that it was derided, hated and
fought against, but also feared, by worthless elements all round. The
fact that the international profiteers who gathered at Versailles,
further to exploit and plunder the nations directed their enmity
specially against the old German army proved once again that it deserved
to be regarded as the institution which protected the liberties of our
people against the forces of the international stock-exchange. If the
army had not been there to sound the alarm and stand on guard, the
purposes of the Versailles representatives would have been carried out
much sooner. There is only one word to express what the German people
owe to this army--Everything!

It was the army that still inculcated a sense of responsibility among
the people when this quality had become very rare and when the habit of
shirking every kind of responsibility was steadily spreading. This habit
had grown up under the evil influences of Parliament, which was itself
the very model of irresponsibility. The army trained the people to
personal courage at a time when the virtue of timidity threatened to
become an epidemic and when the spirit of sacrificing one's personal
interests for the good of the community was considered as something that
amounted almost to weak-mindedness. At a time when only those were
estimated as intelligent who knew how to safeguard and promote their own
egotistic interests, the army was the school through which individual
Germans were taught not to seek the salvation of their nation in the
false ideology of international fraternization between negroes, Germans,
Chinese, French and English, etc., but in the strength and unity of
their own national being.

The army developed the individual's powers of resolute decision, and
this at a time when a spirit of indecision and scepticism governed human
conduct. At a time when the wiseacres were everywhere setting the
fashion it needed courage to uphold the principle that any command is
better than none. This one principle represents a robust and sound style
of thought, of which not a trace would have been left in the other
branches of life if the army had not furnished a constant rejuvenation
of this fundamental force. A sufficient proof of this may be found in
the appalling lack of decision which our present government authorities
display. They cannot shake off their mental and moral lethargy and
decide on some definite line of action except when they are forced to
sign some new dictate for the exploitation of the German people. In that
case they decline all responsibility while at the same time they sign
everything which the other side places before them; and they sign with
the readiness of an official stenographer. Their conduct is here
explicable on the ground that in this case they are not under the
necessity of coming to a decision; for the decision is dictated to them.

The army imbued its members with a spirit of idealism and developed
their readiness to sacrifice themselves for their country and its
honour, while greed and materialism dominated in all the other branches
of life. The army united a people who were split up into classes: and in
this respect had only one defect, which was the One Year Military
Service, a privilege granted to those who had passed through the high
schools. It was a defect, because the principle of absolute equality was
thereby violated; and those who had a better education were thus placed
outside the cadres to which the rest of their comrades belonged. The
reverse would have been better. Since our upper classes were really
ignorant of what was going on in the body corporate of the nation and
were becoming more and more estranged from the life of the people, the
army would have accomplished a very beneficial mission if it had refused
to discriminate in favour of the so-called intellectuals, especially
within its own ranks. It was a mistake that this was not done; but in
this world of ours can we find any institution that has not at least one
defect? And in the army the good features were so absolutely predominant
that the few defects it had were far below the average that generally
rises from human weakness.

But the greatest credit which the army of the old Empire deserves is
that, at a time when the person of the individual counted for nothing
and the majority was everything, it placed individual personal values
above majority values. By insisting on its faith in personality, the
army opposed that typically Jewish and democratic apotheosis of the
power of numbers. The army trained what at that time was most surely
needed: namely, real men. In a period when men were falling a prey to
effeminacy and laxity, 350,000 vigorously trained young men went from
the ranks of the army each year to mingle with their fellow-men. In the
course of their two years' training they had lost the softness of their
young days and had developed bodies as tough as steel. The young man who
had been taught obedience for two years was now fitted to command. The
trained soldier could be recognized already by his walk.

This was the great school of the German nation; and it was not without
reason that it drew upon its head all the bitter hatred of those who
wanted the Empire to be weak and defenceless, because they were jealous
of its greatness and were themselves possessed by a spirit of rapacity
and greed. The rest of the world recognized a fact which many Germans
did not wish to see, either because they were blind to facts or because
out of malice they did not wish to see it. This fact was that the German
Army was the most powerful weapon for the defence and freedom of the
German nation and the best guarantee for the livelihood of its citizens.

There was a third institution of positive worth, which has to be placed
beside that of the monarchy and the army. This was the civil service.

German administration was better organized and better carried out than
the administration of other countries. There may have been objections to
the bureaucratic routine of the officials, but from this point of view
the state of affairs was similar, if not worse, in the other countries.
But the other States did not have the wonderful solidarity which this
organization possessed in Germany, nor were their civil servants of that
same high level of scrupulous honesty. It is certainly better to be a
trifle over-bureaucratic and honest and loyal than to be
over-sophisticated and modern, the latter often implying an inferior
type of character and also ignorance and inefficiency. For if it be
insinuated to-day that the German administration of the pre-War period
may have been excellent so far as bureaucratic technique goes, but that
from the practical business point of view it was incompetent, I can only
give the following reply: What other country in the world possessed a
better-organized and administered business enterprise than the German
State Railways, for instance? It was left to the Revolution to destroy
this standard organization, until a time came when it was taken out of
the hands of the nation and socialized, in the sense which the founders
of the Republic had given to that word, namely, making it subservient to
the international stock-exchange capitalists, who were the wire-pullers
of the German Revolution.

The most outstanding trait in the civil service and the whole body of
the civil administration was its independence of the vicissitudes of
government, the political mentality of which could exercise no influence
on the attitude of the German State officials. Since the Revolution this
situation has been completely changed. Efficiency and capability have
been replaced by the test of party-adherence; and independence of
character and initiative are no longer appreciated as positive qualities
in a public official. They rather tell against him.

The wonderful might and power of the old Empire was based on the
monarchical form of government, the army and the civil service. On these
three foundations rested that great strength which is now entirely
lacking; namely, the authority of the State. For the authority of the
State cannot be based on the babbling that goes on in Parliament or in
the provincial diets and not upon laws made to protect the State, or
upon sentences passed by the law courts to frighten those who have had
the hardihood to deny the authority of the State, but only on the
general confidence which the management and administration of the
community establishes among the people. This confidence is in its turn,
nothing else than the result of an unshakable inner conviction that the
government and administration of a country is inspired by disinterested
and honest goodwill and on the feeling that the spirit of the law is in
complete harmony with the moral convictions of the people. In the long
run, systems of government are not maintained by terrorism but on the
belief of the people in the merits and sincerity of those who administer
and promote the public interests.

Though it be true that in the period preceding the War certain grave
evils tended to infect and corrode the inner strength of the nation, it
must be remembered that the other States suffered even more than Germany
from these drawbacks and yet those other States did not fail and break
down when the time of crisis came. If we remember further that those
defects in pre-War Germany were outweighed by great positive qualities
we shall have to look elsewhere for the effective cause of the collapse.
And elsewhere it lay.

The ultimate and most profound reason of the German downfall is to be
found in the fact that the racial problem was ignored and that its
importance in the historical development of nations was not grasped. For
the events that take place in the life of nations are not due to chance
but are the natural results of the effort to conserve and multiply the
species and the race, even though men may not be able consciously to
picture to their minds the profound motives of their conduct.




CHAPTER XI



RACE AND PEOPLE


There are certain truths which stand out so openly on the roadsides of
life, as it were, that every passer-by may see them. Yet, because of
their very obviousness, the general run of people disregard such truths
or at least they do not make them the object of any conscious knowledge.
People are so blind to some of the simplest facts in every-day life that
they are highly surprised when somebody calls attention to what
everybody ought to know. Examples of The Columbus Egg lie around us in
hundreds of thousands; but observers like Columbus are rare.

Walking about in the garden of Nature, most men have the self-conceit to
think that they know everything; yet almost all are blind to one of the
outstanding principles that Nature employs in her work. This principle
may be called the inner isolation which characterizes each and every
living species on this earth.

Even a superficial glance is sufficient to show that all the innumerable
forms in which the life-urge of Nature manifests itself are subject to a
fundamental law--one may call it an iron law of Nature--which compels
the various species to keep within the definite limits of their own
life-forms when propagating and multiplying their kind. Each animal
mates only with one of its own species. The titmouse cohabits only with
the titmouse, the finch with the finch, the stork with the stork, the
field-mouse with the field-mouse, the house-mouse with the house-mouse,
the wolf with the she-wolf, etc.

Deviations from this law take place only in exceptional circumstances.
This happens especially under the compulsion of captivity, or when some
other obstacle makes procreative intercourse impossible between
individuals of the same species. But then Nature abhors such intercourse
with all her might; and her protest is most clearly demonstrated by the
fact that the hybrid is either sterile or the fecundity of its
descendants is limited. In most cases hybrids and their progeny are
denied the ordinary powers of resistance to disease or the natural means
of defence against outer attack.

Such a dispensation of Nature is quite logical. Every crossing between
two breeds which are not quite equal results in a product which holds an
intermediate place between the levels of the two parents. This means
that the offspring will indeed be superior to the parent which stands in
the biologically lower order of being, but not so high as the higher
parent. For this reason it must eventually succumb in any struggle
against the higher species. Such mating contradicts the will of Nature
towards the selective improvements of life in general. The favourable
preliminary to this improvement is not to mate individuals of higher and
lower orders of being but rather to allow the complete triumph of the
higher order. The stronger must dominate and not mate with the weaker,
which would signify the sacrifice of its own higher nature. Only the
born weakling can look upon this principle as cruel, and if he does so
it is merely because he is of a feebler nature and narrower mind; for if
such a law did not direct the process of evolution then the higher
development of organic life would not be conceivable at all.

This urge for the maintenance of the unmixed breed, which is a
phenomenon that prevails throughout the whole of the natural world,
results not only in the sharply defined outward distinction between one
species and another but also in the internal similarity of
characteristic qualities which are peculiar to each breed or species.
The fox remains always a fox, the goose remains a goose, and the tiger
will retain the character of a tiger. The only difference that can exist
within the species must be in the various degrees of structural strength
and active power, in the intelligence, efficiency, endurance, etc., with
which the individual specimens are endowed. It would be impossible to
find a fox which has a kindly and protective disposition towards geese,
just as no cat exists which has a friendly disposition towards mice.

That is why the struggle between the various species does not arise from
a feeling of mutual antipathy but rather from hunger and love. In both
cases Nature looks on calmly and is even pleased with what happens. The
struggle for the daily livelihood leaves behind in the ruck everything
that is weak or diseased or wavering; while the fight of the male to
possess the female gives to the strongest the right, or at least, the
possibility to propagate its kind. And this struggle is a means of
furthering the health and powers of resistance in the species. Thus it
is one of the causes underlying the process of development towards a
higher quality of being.

If the case were different the progressive process would cease, and even
retrogression might set in. Since the inferior always outnumber the
superior, the former would always increase more rapidly if they
possessed the same capacities for survival and for the procreation of
their kind; and the final consequence would be that the best in quality
would be forced to recede into the background. Therefore a corrective
measure in favour of the better quality must intervene. Nature supplies
this by establishing rigorous conditions of life to which the weaker
will have to submit and will thereby be numerically restricted; but even
that portion which survives cannot indiscriminately multiply, for here a
new and rigorous selection takes place, according to strength and
health.

If Nature does not wish that weaker individuals should mate with the
stronger, she wishes even less that a superior race should intermingle
with an inferior one; because in such a case all her efforts, throughout
hundreds of thousands of years, to establish an evolutionary higher
stage of being, may thus be rendered futile.

History furnishes us with innumerable instances that prove this law. It
shows, with a startling clarity, that whenever Aryans have mingled their
blood with that of an inferior race the result has been the downfall of
the people who were the standard-bearers of a higher culture. In North
America, where the population is prevalently Teutonic, and where those
elements intermingled with the inferior race only to a very small
degree, we have a quality of mankind and a civilization which are
different from those of Central and South America. In these latter
countries the immigrants--who mainly belonged to the Latin races--mated
with the aborigines, sometimes to a very large extent indeed. In this
case we have a clear and decisive example of the effect produced by the
mixture of races. But in North America the Teutonic element, which has
kept its racial stock pure and did not mix it with any other racial
stock, has come to dominate the American Continent and will remain
master of it as long as that element does not fall a victim to the habit
of adulterating its blood.

In short, the results of miscegenation are always the following:

(a) The level of the superior race becomes lowered;

(b) physical and mental degeneration sets in, thus leading slowly but
steadily towards a progressive drying up of the vital sap.

The act which brings about such a development is a sin against the will
of the Eternal Creator. And as a sin this act will be avenged.

Man's effort to build up something that contradicts the iron logic of
Nature brings him into conflict with those principles to which he
himself exclusively owes his own existence. By acting against the laws
of Nature he prepares the way that leads to his ruin.

Here we meet the insolent objection, which is Jewish in its inspiration
and is typical of the modern pacifist. It says: "Man can control even
Nature."

There are millions who repeat by rote that piece of Jewish babble and
end up by imagining that somehow they themselves are the conquerors of
Nature. And yet their only weapon is just a mere idea, and a very
preposterous idea into the bargain; because if one accepted it, then it
would be impossible even to imagine the existence of the world.

The real truth is that, not only has man failed to overcome Nature in
any sphere whatsoever but that at best he has merely succeeded in
getting hold of and lifting a tiny corner of the enormous veil which she
has spread over her eternal mysteries and secret. He never creates
anything. All he can do is to discover something. He does not master
Nature but has only come to be the master of those living beings who
have not gained the knowledge he has arrived at by penetrating into some
of Nature's laws and mysteries. Apart from all this, an idea can never
subject to its own sway those conditions which are necessary for the
existence and development of mankind; for the idea itself has come only
from man. Without man there would be no human idea in this world. The
idea as such is therefore always dependent on the existence of man and
consequently is dependent on those laws which furnish the conditions of
his existence.

And not only that. Certain ideas are even confined to certain people.
This holds true with regard to those ideas in particular which have not
their roots in objective scientific truth but in the world of feeling.
In other words, to use a phrase which is current to-day and which well
and clearly expresses this truth: THEY REFLECT AN INNER EXPERIENCE. All
such ideas, which have nothing to do with cold logic as such but
represent mere manifestations of feeling, such as ethical and moral
conceptions, etc., are inextricably bound up with man's existence. It is
to the creative powers of man's imagination that such ideas owe their
existence.

Now, then, a necessary condition for the maintenance of such ideas is
the existence of certain races and certain types of men. For example,
anyone who sincerely wishes that the pacifist idea should prevail in
this world ought to do all he is capable of doing to help the Germans
conquer the world; for in case the reverse should happen it may easily
be that the last pacifist would disappear with the last German. I say
this because, unfortunately, only our people, and no other people in the
world, fell a prey to this idea. Whether you like it or not, you would
have to make up your mind to forget wars if you would achieve the
pacifist ideal. Nothing less than this was the plan of the American
world-redeemer, Woodrow Wilson. Anyhow that was what our visionaries
believed, and they thought that through his plans their ideals would be
attained.

The pacifist-humanitarian idea may indeed become an excellent one when
the most superior type of manhood will have succeeded in subjugating the
world to such an extent that this type is then sole master of the earth.
This idea could have an injurious effect only in the measure according
to which its application would become difficult and finally impossible.
So, first of all, the fight and then pacifism. If the case were
different it would mean that mankind has already passed the zenith of
its development, and accordingly the end would not be the supremacy of
some moral ideal but degeneration into barbarism and consequent chaos.
People may laugh at this statement; but our planet has been moving
through the spaces of ether for millions and millions of years,
uninhabited by men, and at some future date may easily begin to do so
again--if men should forget that wherever they have reached a superior
level of existence, it was not the result of following the ideas of
crazy visionaries but by acknowledging and rigorously observing the iron
laws of Nature.

All that we admire in the world to-day, its science, its art, its
technical developments and discoveries, are the products of the creative
activities of a few peoples, and it may be true that their first
beginnings must be attributed to one race. The maintenance of
civilization is wholly dependent on such peoples. Should they perish,
all that makes this earth beautiful will descend with them into the
grave.

However great, for example, be the influence which the soil exerts on
men, this influence will always vary according to the race in which it
produces its effect. Dearth of soil may stimulate one race to the most
strenuous efforts and highest achievement; while, for another race, the
poverty of the soil may be the cause of misery and finally of
undernourishment, with all its consequences. The internal
characteristics of a people are always the causes which determine the
nature of the effect that outer circumstances have on them. What reduces
one race to starvation trains another race to harder work.

All the great civilizations of the past became decadent because the
originally creative race died out, as a result of contamination of the
blood.

The most profound cause of such a decline is to be found in the fact
that the people ignored the principle that all culture depends on men,
and not the reverse. In other words, in order to preserve a certain
culture, the type of manhood that creates such a culture must be
preserved. But such a preservation goes hand-in-hand with the inexorable
law that it is the strongest and the best who must triumph and that they
have the right to endure.

He who would live must fight. He who does not wish to fight in this
world, where permanent struggle is the law of life, has not the right to
exist.

Such a saying may sound hard; but, after all, that is how the matter
really stands. Yet far harder is the lot of him who believes that he can
overcome Nature and thus in reality insults her. Distress, misery, and
disease are her rejoinders.

Whoever ignores or despises the laws of race really deprives himself of
the happiness to which he believes he can attain. For he places an
obstacle in the victorious path of the superior race and, by so doing,
he interferes with a prerequisite condition of all human progress.
Loaded with the burden of humanitarian sentiment, he falls back to the
level of those who are unable to raise themselves in the scale of being.

It would be futile to attempt to discuss the question as to what race or
races were the original standard-bearers of human culture and were
thereby the real founders of all that we understand by the word
humanity. It is much simpler to deal with this question in so far as it
relates to the present time. Here the answer is simple and clear. Every
manifestation of human culture, every product of art, science and
technical skill, which we see before our eyes to-day, is almost
exclusively the product of the Aryan creative power. This very fact
fully justifies the conclusion that it was the Aryan alone who founded a
superior type of humanity; therefore he represents the architype of what
we understand by the term: MAN. He is the Prometheus of mankind, from
whose shining brow the divine spark of genius has at all times flashed
forth, always kindling anew that fire which, in the form of knowledge,
illuminated the dark night by drawing aside the veil of mystery and thus
showing man how to rise and become master over all the other beings on
the earth. Should he be forced to disappear, a profound darkness will
descend on the earth; within a few thousand years human culture will
vanish and the world will become a desert.

If we divide mankind into three categories--founders of culture, bearers
of culture, and destroyers of culture--the Aryan alone can be considered
as representing the first category. It was he who laid the groundwork
and erected the walls of every great structure in human culture. Only
the shape and colour of such structures are to be attributed to the
individual characteristics of the various nations. It is the Aryan who
has furnished the great building-stones and plans for the edifices of
all human progress; only the way in which these plans have been executed
is to be attributed to the qualities of each individual race. Within a
few decades the whole of Eastern Asia, for instance, appropriated a
culture and called such a culture its own, whereas the basis of that
culture was the Greek mind and Teutonic skill as we know it. Only the
external form--at least to a certain degree--shows the traits of an
Asiatic inspiration. It is not true, as some believe, that Japan adds
European technique to a culture of her own. The truth rather is that
European science and technics are just decked out with the peculiar
characteristics of Japanese civilization. The foundations of actual life
in Japan to-day are not those of the native Japanese culture, although
this characterizes the external features of the country, which features
strike the eye of European observers on account of their fundamental
difference from us; but the real foundations of contemporary Japanese
life are the enormous scientific and technical achievements of Europe
and America, that is to say, of Aryan peoples. Only by adopting these
achievements as the foundations of their own progress can the various
nations of the Orient take a place in contemporary world progress. The
scientific and technical achievements of Europe and America provide the
basis on which the struggle for daily livelihood is carried on in the
Orient. They provide the necessary arms and instruments for this
struggle, and only the outer forms of these instruments have become
gradually adapted to Japanese ways of life.

If, from to-day onwards, the Aryan influence on Japan would cease--and
if we suppose that Europe and America would collapse--then the present
progress of Japan in science and technique might still last for a short
duration; but within a few decades the inspiration would dry up, and
native Japanese character would triumph, while the present civilization
would become fossilized and fall back into the sleep from which it was
aroused about seventy years ago by the impact of Aryan culture. We may
therefore draw the conclusion that, just as the present Japanese
development has been due to Aryan influence, so in the immemorial past
an outside influence and an outside culture brought into existence the
Japanese culture of that day. This opinion is very strongly supported by
the fact that the ancient civilization of Japan actually became
fossilizied and petrified. Such a process of senility can happen only if
a people loses the racial cell which originally had been creative or if
the outside influence should be withdrawn after having awakened and
maintained the first cultural developments in that region. If it be
shown that a people owes the fundamental elements of its culture to
foreign races, assimilating and elaborating such elements, and if
subsequently that culture becomes fossilized whenever the external
influence ceases, then such a race may be called the depository but
never the creator of a culture.

If we subject the different peoples to a strict test from this
standpoint we shall find that scarcely any one of them has originally
created a culture, but almost all have been merely the recipients of a
culture created elsewhere.

This development may be depicted as always happening somewhat in the
following way:

Aryan tribes, often almost ridiculously small in number, subjugated
foreign peoples and, stimulated by the conditions of life which their
new country offered them (fertility, the nature of the climate, etc.),
and profiting also by the abundance of manual labour furnished them by
the inferior race, they developed intellectual and organizing faculties
which had hitherto been dormant in these conquering tribes. Within the
course of a few thousand years, or even centuries, they gave life to
cultures whose primitive traits completely corresponded to the character
of the founders, though modified by adaptation to the peculiarities of
the soil and the characteristics of the subjugated people. But finally
the conquering race offended against the principles which they first had
observed, namely, the maintenance of their racial stock unmixed, and
they began to intermingle with the subjugated people. Thus they put an
end to their own separate existence; for the original sin committed in
Paradise has always been followed by the expulsion of the guilty
parties.

After a thousand years or more the last visible traces of those former
masters may then be found in a lighter tint of the skin which the Aryan
blood had bequeathed to the subjugated race, and in a fossilized culture
of which those Aryans had been the original creators. For just as the
blood. of the conqueror, who was a conqueror not only in body but also
in spirit, got submerged in the blood of the subject race, so the
substance disappeared out of which the torch of human culture and
progress was kindled. In so far as the blood of the former ruling race
has left a light nuance of colour in the blood of its descendants, as a
token and a memory, the night of cultural life is rendered less dim and
dark by a mild light radiated from the products of those who were the
bearers of the original fire. Their radiance shines across the barbarism
to which the subjected race has reverted and might often lead the
superficial observer to believe that he sees before him an image of the
present race when he is really looking into a mirror wherein only the
past is reflected.

It may happen that in the course of its history such a people will come
into contact a second time, and even oftener, with the original founders
of their culture and may not even remember that distant association.
Instinctively the remnants of blood left from that old ruling race will
be drawn towards this new phenomenon and what had formerly been possible
only under compulsion can now be successfully achieved in a voluntary
way. A new cultural wave flows in and lasts until the blood of its
standard-bearers becomes once again adulterated by intermixture with the
originally conquered race.

It will be the task of those who set themselves to the study of a
universal history of civilization to investigate history from this point
of view instead of allowing themselves to be smothered under the mass of
external data, as is only too often the case with our present historical
science.

This short sketch of the changes that take place among those races that
are only the depositories of a culture also furnishes a picture of the
development and the activity and the disappearance of those who are the
true founders of culture on this earth, namely the Aryans themselves.

Just as in our daily life the so-called man of genius needs a particular
occasion, and sometimes indeed a special stimulus, to bring his genius
to light, so too in the life of the peoples the race that has genius in
it needs the occasion and stimulus to bring that genius to expression.
In the monotony and routine of everyday life even persons of
significance seem just like the others and do not rise beyond the
average level of their fellow-men. But as soon as such men find
themselves in a special situation which disconcerts and unbalances the
others, the humble person of apparently common qualities reveals traits
of genius, often to the amazement of those who have hitherto known him
in the small things of everyday life. That is the reason why a prophet
only seldom counts for something in his own country. War offers an
excellent occasion for observing this phenomenon. In times of distress,
when the others despair, apparently harmless boys suddenly spring up and
become heroes, full of determination, undaunted in the presence of Death
and manifesting wonderful powers of calm reflection under such
circumstances. If such an hour of trial did not come nobody would have
thought that the soul of a hero lurked in the body of that beardless
youth. A special impulse is almost always necessary to bring a man of
genius into the foreground. The sledge-hammer of Fate which strikes down
the one so easily suddenly finds the counter-impact of steel when it
strikes at the other. And, after the common shell of everyday life is
broken, the core that lay hidden in it is displayed to the eyes of an
astonished world. This surrounding world then grows obstinate and will
not believe that what had seemed so like itself is really of that
different quality so suddenly displayed. This is a process which is
repeated probably every time a man of outstanding significance appears.

Though an inventor, for example, does not establish his fame until the
very day that he carries through his invention, it would be a mistake to
believe that the creative genius did not become alive in him until that
moment. From the very hour of his birth the spark of genius is living
within the man who has been endowed with the real creative faculty. True
genius is an innate quality. It can never be the result of education or
training.

As I have stated already, this holds good not merely of the individual
but also of the race. Those peoples who manifest creative abilities in
certain periods of their history have always been fundamentally
creative. It belongs to their very nature, even though this fact may
escape the eyes of the superficial observer. Here also recognition from
outside is only the consequence of practical achievement. Since the rest
of the world is incapable of recognizing genius as such, it can only see
the visible manifestations of genius in the form of inventions,
discoveries, buildings, painting, etc.; but even here a long time passes
before recognition is given. Just as the individual person who has been
endowed with the gift of genius, or at least talent of a very high
order, cannot bring that endowment to realization until he comes under
the urge of special circumstances, so in the life of the nations the
creative capacities and powers frequently have to wait until certain
conditions stimulate them to action.

The most obvious example of this truth is furnished by that race which
has been, and still is, the standard-bearer of human progress: I mean
the Aryan race. As soon as Fate brings them face to face with special
circumstances their powers begin to develop progressively and to be
manifested in tangible form. The characteristic cultures which they
create under such circumstances are almost always conditioned by the
soil, the climate and the people they subjugate. The last factor--that
of the character of the people--is the most decisive one. The more
primitive the technical conditions under which the civilizing activity
takes place, the more necessary is the existence of manual labour which
can be organized and employed so as to take the place of mechanical
power. Had it not been possible for them to employ members of the
inferior race which they conquered, the Aryans would never have been in
a position to take the first steps on the road which led them to a later
type of culture; just as, without the help of certain suitable animals
which they were able to tame, they would never have come to the
invention of mechanical power which has subsequently enabled them to do
without these beasts. The phrase, 'The Moor has accomplished his
function, so let him now depart', has, unfortunately, a profound
application. For thousands of years the horse has been the faithful
servant of man and has helped him to lay the foundations of human
progress, but now motor power has dispensed with the use of the horse.
In a few years to come the use of the horse will cease entirely; and yet
without its collaboration man could scarcely have come to the stage of
development which he has now created.

For the establishment of superior types of civilization the members of
inferior races formed one of the most essential pre-requisites. They
alone could supply the lack of mechanical means without which no
progress is possible. It is certain that the first stages of human
civilization were not based so much on the use of tame animals as on the
employment of human beings who were members of an inferior race.

Only after subjugated races were employed as slaves was a similar fate
allotted to animals, and not vice versa, as some people would have us
believe. At first it was the conquered enemy who had to draw the plough
and only afterwards did the ox and horse take his place. Nobody else but
puling pacifists can consider this fact as a sign of human degradation.
Such people fail to recognize that this evolution had to take place in
order that man might reach that degree of civilization which these
apostles now exploit in an attempt to make the world pay attention to
their rigmarole.

The progress of mankind may be compared to the process of ascending an
infinite ladder. One does not reach the higher level without first
having climbed the lower rungs. The Aryan therefore had to take that
road which his sense of reality pointed out to him and not that which
the modern pacifist dreams of. The path of reality is, however,
difficult and hard to tread; yet it is the only one which finally leads
to the goal where the others envisage mankind in their dreams. But the
real truth is that those dreamers help only to lead man away from his
goal rather than towards it.

It was not by mere chance that the first forms of civilization arose
there where the Aryan came into contact with inferior races, subjugated
them and forced them to obey his command. The members of the inferior
race became the first mechanical tools in the service of a growing
civilization.

Thereby the way was clearly indicated which the Aryan had to follow. As
a conqueror, he subjugated inferior races and turned their physical
powers into organized channels under his own leadership, forcing them to
follow his will and purpose. By imposing on them a useful, though hard,
manner of employing their powers he not only spared the lives of those
whom he had conquered but probably made their lives easier than these
had been in the former state of so-called 'freedom'. While he ruthlessly
maintained his position as their master, he not only remained master but
he also maintained and advanced civilization. For this depended
exclusively on his inborn abilities and, therefore, on the preservation
of the Aryan race as such. As soon, however, as his subject began to
rise and approach the level of their conqueror, a phase of which
ascension was probably the use of his language, the barriers that had
distinguished master from servant broke down. The Aryan neglected to
maintain his own racial stock unmixed and therewith lost the right to
live in the paradise which he himself had created. He became submerged
in the racial mixture and gradually lost his cultural creativeness,
until he finally grew, not only mentally but also physically, more like
the aborigines whom he had subjected rather than his own ancestors. For
some time he could continue to live on the capital of that culture which
still remained; but a condition of fossilization soon set in and he sank
into oblivion.

That is how cultures and empires decline and yield their places to new
formations.

The adulteration of the blood and racial deterioration conditioned
thereby are the only causes that account for the decline of ancient
civilizations; for it is never by war that nations are ruined, but by
the loss of their powers of resistance, which are exclusively a
characteristic of pure racial blood. In this world everything that is
not of sound racial stock is like chaff. Every historical event in the
world is nothing more nor less than a manifestation of the instinct of
racial self-preservation, whether for weal or woe.

The question as to the ground reasons for the predominant importance of
Aryanism can be answered by pointing out that it is not so much that the
Aryans are endowed with a stronger instinct for self-preservation, but
rather that this manifests itself in a way which is peculiar to
themselves. Considered from the subjective standpoint, the will-to-live
is of course equally strong all round and only the forms in which it is
expressed are different. Among the most primitive organisms the instinct
for self-preservation does not extend beyond the care of the individual
ego. Egotism, as we call this passion, is so predominant that it
includes even the time element; which means that the present moment is
deemed the most important and that nothing is left to the future. The
animal lives only for itself, searching for food only when it feels
hunger and fighting only for the preservation of its own life. As long
as the instinct for self-preservation manifests itself exclusively in
such a way, there is no basis for the establishment of a community; not
even the most primitive form of all, that is to say the family. The
society formed by the male with the female, where it goes beyond the
mere conditions of mating, calls for the extension of the instinct of
self-preservation, since the readiness to fight for one's own ego has to
be extended also to the mate. The male sometimes provides food for the
female, but in most cases both parents provide food for the offspring.
Almost always they are ready to protect and defend each other; so that
here we find the first, though infinitely simple, manifestation of the
spirit of sacrifice. As soon as this spirit extends beyond the narrow
limits of the family, we have the conditions under which larger
associations and finally even States can be formed.

The lowest species of human beings give evidence of this quality only to
a very small degree, so that often they do not go beyond the formation
of the family society. With an increasing readiness to place their
immediate personal interests in the background, the capacity for
organizing more extensive communities develops.

The readiness to sacrifice one's personal work and, if necessary, even
one's life for others shows its most highly developed form in the Aryan
race. The greatness of the Aryan is not based on his intellectual
powers, but rather on his willingness to devote all his faculties to the
service of the community. Here the instinct for self-preservation has
reached its noblest form; for the Aryan willingly subordinates his own
ego to the common weal and when necessity calls he will even sacrifice
his own life for the community.

The constructive powers of the Aryan and that peculiar ability he has
for the building up of a culture are not grounded in his intellectual
gifts alone. If that were so they might only be destructive and could
never have the ability to organize; for the latter essentially depends
on the readiness of the individual to renounce his own personal opinions
and interests and to lay both at the service of the human group. By
serving the common weal he receives his reward in return. For example,
he does not work directly for himself but makes his productive work a
part of the activity of the group to which he belongs, not only for his
own benefit but for the general. The spirit underlying this attitude is
expressed by the word: WORK, which to him does not at all signify a
means of earning one's daily livelihood but rather a productive activity
which cannot clash with the interests of the community. Whenever human
activity is directed exclusively to the service of the instinct for
self-preservation it is called theft or usury, robbery or burglary, etc.

This mental attitude, which forces self-interest to recede into the
background in favour of the common weal, is the first prerequisite for
any kind of really human civilization. It is out of this spirit alone
that great human achievements have sprung for which the original doers
have scarcely ever received any recompense but which turns out to be the
source of abundant benefit for their descendants. It is this spirit
alone which can explain why it so often happens that people can endure a
harsh but honest existence which offers them no returns for their toil
except a poor and modest livelihood. But such a livelihood helps to
consolidate the foundations on which the community exists. Every worker
and every peasant, every inventor, state official, etc., who works
without ever achieving fortune or prosperity for himself, is a
representative of this sublime idea, even though he may never become
conscious of the profound meaning of his own activity.

Everything that may be said of that kind of work which is the
fundamental condition of providing food and the basic means of human
progress is true even in a higher sense of work that is done for the
protection of man and his civilization. The renunciation of one's own
life for the sake of the community is the crowning significance of the
idea of all sacrifice. In this way only is it possible to protect what
has been built up by man and to assure that this will not be destroyed
by the hand of man or of nature.

In the German language we have a word which admirably expresses this
underlying spirit of all work: It is Pflichterfu"llung, which means the
service of the common weal before the consideration of one's own
interests. The fundamental spirit out of which this kind of activity
springs is the contradistinction of 'Egotism' and we call it 'Idealism'.
By this we mean to signify the willingness of the individual to make
sacrifices for the community and his fellow-men.

It is of the utmost importance to insist again and again that idealism
is not merely a superfluous manifestation of sentiment but rather
something which has been, is and always will be, a necessary
precondition of human civilization; it is even out of this that the very
idea of the word 'Human' arises. To this kind of mentality the Aryan
owes his position in the world. And the world is indebted to the Aryan
mind for having developed the concept of 'mankind'; for it is out of
this spirit alone that the creative force has come which in a unique way
combined robust muscular power with a first-class intellect and thus
created the monuments of human civilization.

Were it not for idealism all the faculties of the intellect, even the
most brilliant, would be nothing but intellect itself, a mere external
phenomenon without inner value and never a creative force.

Since true idealism, however, is essentially the subordination of the
interests and life of the individual to the interests and life of the
community, and since the community on its part represents the
pre-requisite condition of every form of organization, this idealism
accords in its innermost essence with the final purpose of Nature. This
feeling alone makes men voluntarily acknowledge that strength and power
are entitled to take the lead and thus makes them a constituent particle
in that order out of which the whole universe is shaped and formed.

Without being conscious of it, the purest idealism is always associated
with the most profound knowledge. How true this is and how little
genuine idealism has to do with fantastic self-dramatization will become
clear the moment we ask an unspoilt child, a healthy boy for example, to
give his opinion. The very same boy who listens to the rantings of an
'idealistic' pacifist without understanding them, and even rejects them,
would readily sacrifice his young life for the ideal of his people.

Unconsciously his instinct will submit to the knowledge that the
preservation of the species, even at the cost of the individual life, is
a primal necessity and he will protest against the fantasies of pacifist
ranters, who in reality are nothing better than cowardly egoists, even
though camouflaged, who contradict the laws of human development. For it
is a necessity of human evolution that the individual should be imbued
with the spirit of sacrifice in favour of the common weal, and that he
should not be influenced by the morbid notions of those knaves who
pretend to know better than Nature and who have the impudencc to
criticize her decrees.

It is just at those junctures when the idealistic attitude threatens to
disappear that we notice a weakening of this force which is a necessary
constituent in the founding and maintenance of the community and is
thereby a necessary condition of civilization. As soon as the spirit of
egotism begins to prevail among a people then the bonds of the social
order break and man, by seeking his own personal happiness, veritably
tumbles out of heaven and falls into hell.

Posterity will not remember those who pursued only their own individual
interests, but it will praise those heroes who renounced their own
happiness.

The Jew offers the most striking contrast to the Aryan. There is
probably no other people in the world who have so developed the instinct
of self-preservation as the so-called 'chosen' people. The best proof of
this statement is found in the simple fact that this race still exists.
Where can another people be found that in the course of the last two
thousand years has undergone so few changes in mental outlook and
character as the Jewish people? And yet what other people has taken such
a constant part in the great revolutions? But even after having passed
through the most gigantic catastrophes that have overwhelmed mankind,
the Jews remain the same as ever. What an infinitely tenacious
will-to-live, to preserve one's kind, is demonstrated by that fact!

The intellectual faculties of the Jew have been trained through
thousands of years. To-day the Jew is looked upon as specially
'cunning'; and in a certain sense he has been so throughout the ages.
His intellectual powers, however, are not the result of an inner
evolution but rather have been shaped by the object-lessons which the
Jew has received from others. The human spirit cannot climb upwards
without taking successive steps. For every step upwards it needs the
foundation of what has been constructed before--the past--which in, the
comprehensive sense here employed, can have been laid only in a general
civilization. All thinking originates only to a very small degree in
personal experience. The largest part is based on the accumulated
experiences of the past. The general level of civilization provides the
individual, who in most cases is not consciously aware of the fact, with
such an abundance of preliminary knowledge that with this equipment he
can more easily take further steps on the road of progress. The boy of
to-day, for example, grows up among such an overwhelming mass of
technical achievement which has accumulated during the last century that
he takes as granted many things which a hundred years ago were still
mysteries even to the greatest minds of those times. Yet these things
that are not so much a matter of course are of enormous importance to
those who would understand the progress we have made in these matters
and would carry on that progress a step farther. If a man of genius
belonging to the 'twenties of the last century were to arise from his
grave to-day he would find it more difficult to understand our present
age than the contemporary boy of fifteen years of age who may even have
only an average intelligence. The man of genius, thus come back from the
past, would need to provide himself with an extraordinary amount of
preliminary information which our contemporary youth receive
automatically, so to speak, during the time they are growing up among
the products of our modern civilization.

Since the Jew--for reasons that I shall deal with immediately--never had
a civilization of his own, he has always been furnished by others with a
basis for his: intellectual work. His intellect has always developed by
the use of those cultural achievements which he has found ready-to-hand
around him.

The process has never been the reverse.

For, though among the Jews the instinct of self-preservation has not
been weaker but has been much stronger than among other peoples, and
though the impression may easily be created that the intellectual powers
of the Jew are at least equal to those of other races, the Jews
completely lack the most essential pre-requisite of a cultural people,
namely the idealistic spirit. With the Jewish people the readiness for
sacrifice does not extend beyond the simple instinct of individual
preservation. In their case the feeling of racial solidarity which they
apparently manifest is nothing but a very primitive gregarious instinct,
similar to that which may be found among other organisms in this world.
It is a remarkable fact that this herd instinct brings individuals
together for mutual protection only as long as there is a common danger
which makes mutual assistance expedient or inevitable. The same pack of
wolves which a moment ago joined together in a common attack on their
victim will dissolve into individual wolves as soon as their hunger has
been satisfied. This is also sure of horses, which unite to defend
themselves against any aggressor but separate the moment the danger is
over.

It is much the same with the Jew. His spirit of sacrifice is only
apparent. It manifests itself only so long as the existence of the
individual makes this a matter of absolute necessity. But as soon as the
common foe is conquered and the danger which threatened the individual
Jews is overcome and the prey secured, then the apparent harmony
disappears and the original conditions set in again. Jews act in concord
only when a common danger threatens them or a common prey attracts them.
Where these two motives no longer exist then the most brutal egotism
appears and these people who before had lived together in unity will
turn into a swarm of rats that bitterly fight against each other.

If the Jews were the only people in the world they would be wallowing in
filth and mire and would exploit one another and try to exterminate one
another in a bitter struggle, except in so far as their utter lack of
the ideal of sacrifice, which shows itself in their cowardly spirit,
would prevent this struggle from developing.

Therefore it would be a complete mistake to interpret the mutual help
which the Jews render one another when they have to fight--or, to put it
more accurately, to exploit--their fellow being, as the expression of a
certain idealistic spirit of sacrifice.

Here again the Jew merely follows the call of his individual egotism.
That is why the Jewish State, which ought to be a vital organization to
serve the purpose of preserving or increasing the race, has absolutely
no territorial boundaries. For the territorial delimitation of a State
always demands a certain idealism of spirit on the part of the race
which forms that State and especially a proper acceptance of the idea of
work. A State which is territorially delimited cannot be established or
maintained unless the general attitude towards work be a positive one.
If this attitude be lacking, then the necessary basis of a civilization
is also lacking.

That is why the Jewish people, despite the intellectual powers with
which they are apparently endowed, have not a culture--certainly not a
culture of their own. The culture which the Jew enjoys to-day is the
product of the work of others and this product is debased in the hands
of the Jew.

In order to form a correct judgment of the place which the Jew holds in
relation to the whole problem of human civilization, we must bear in
mind the essential fact that there never has been any Jewish art and
consequently that nothing of this kind exists to-day. We must realize
that especially in those two royal domains of art, namely architecture
and music, the Jew has done no original creative work. When the Jew
comes to producing something in the field of art he merely bowdler-izes
something already in existence or simply steals the intellectual word,
of others. The Jew essentially lacks those qualities which are
characteristic of those creative races that are the founders of
civilization.

To what extent the Jew appropriates the civilization built up by
others--or rather corrupts it, to speak more accurately--is indicated by
the fact that he cultivates chiefly the art which calls for the smallest
amount of original invention, namely the dramatic art. And even here he
is nothing better than a kind of juggler or, perhaps more correctly
speaking, a kind of monkey imitator; for in this domain also he lacks
the creative elan which is necessary for the production of all really
great work. Even here, therefore, he is not a creative genius but rather
a superficial imitator who, in spite of all his retouching and tricks,
cannot disguise the fact that there is no inner vitality in the shape he
gives his products. At this juncture the Jewish Press comes in and
renders friendly assistance by shouting hosannas over the head of even
the most ordinary bungler of a Jew, until the rest of the world is
stampeded into thinking that the object of so much praise must really be
an artist, whereas in reality he may be nothing more than a low-class
mimic.

No; the Jews have not the creative abilities which are necessary to the
founding of a civilization; for in them there is not, and never has
been, that spirit of idealism which is an absolutely necessary element
in the higher development of mankind. Therefore the Jewish intellect
will never be constructive but always destructive. At best it may serve
as a stimulus in rare cases but only within the meaning of the poet's
lines: 'THE POWER WHICH ALWAYS WILLS THE BAD, AND ALWAYS WORKS THE GOOD'
(KRAFT, DIE STETS DAS BO"SE WILL UND STETS DAS GUTE SCHAFFT). (Note 15) It
is not through his help but in spite of his help that mankind makes any
progress.

[Note 15. When Mephistopheles first appears to Faust, in the latter's
study, Faust inquires: "What is thy name?" To which Mephistopheles
replies: "A part ofthe Power which always wills the Bad and always works
the Good." And when Faust asks him what is meant by this riddle and why he
should call himself'a part,' the gist of Mephistopheles' reply is that he
is the Spirit of Negation and exists through opposition to the positive
Truth and Order and Beauty which proceed from the never-ending creative
energy of the Deity. In the Prologue to Faust the Lord declares that
man's active nature would grow sluggishin working the good and that
therefore he has to be aroused by the Spirit of Opposition. This Spirit
wills the Bad, but of itself it can do nothing positive, and by its
opposition always works the opposite of what it wills.]

Since the Jew has never had a State which was based on territorial
delimitations, and therefore never a civilization of his own, the idea
arose that here we were dealing with a people who had to be considered
as Nomads. That is a great and mischievous mistake. The true nomad does
actually possess a definite delimited territory where he lives. It is
merely that he does not cultivate it, as the settled farmer does, but
that he lives on the products of his herds, with which he wanders over
his domain. The natural reason for this mode of existence is to be found
in the fact that the soil is not fertile and that it does not give the
steady produce which makes a fixed abode possible. Outside of this
natural cause, however, there is a more profound cause: namely, that no
mechanical civilization is at hand to make up for the natural poverty of
the region in question. There are territories where the Aryan can
establish fixed settlements by means of the technical skill which he has
developed in the course of more than a thousand years, even though these
territories would otherwise have to be abandoned, unless the Aryan were
willing to wander about them in nomadic fashion; but his technical
tradition and his age-long experience of the use of technical means
would probably make the nomadic life unbearable for him. We ought to
remember that during the first period of American colonization numerous
Aryans earned their daily livelihood as trappers and hunters, etc.,
frequently wandering about in large groups with their women and
children, their mode of existence very much resembling that of ordinary
nomads. The moment, however, that they grew more numerous and were able
to accumulate larger resources, they cleared the land and drove out the
aborigines, at the same time establishing settlements which rapidly
increased all over the country.

The Aryan himself was probably at first a nomad and became a settler in
the course of ages. But yet he was never of the Jewish kind. The Jew is
not a nomad; for the nomad has already a definite attitude towards the
concept of 'work', and this attitude served as the basis of a later
cultural development, when the necessary intellectual conditions were at
hand. There is a certain amount of idealism in the general attitude of
the nomad, even though it be rather primitive. His whole character may,
therefore, be foreign to Aryan feeling but it will never be repulsive.
But not even the slightest trace of idealism exists in the Jewish
character. The Jew has never been a nomad, but always a parasite,
battening on the substance of others. If he occasionally abandoned
regions where he had hitherto lived he did not do it voluntarily. He did
it because from time to time he was driven out by people who were tired
of having their hospitality abused by such guests. Jewish self-expansion
is a parasitic phenomenon--since the Jew is always looking for new
pastures for his race.

But this has nothing to do with nomadic life as such; because the Jew
does not ever think of leaving a territory which he has once occupied.
He sticks where he is with such tenacity that he can hardly be driven
out even by superior physical force. He expands into new territories
only when certain conditions for his existence are provided therein; but
even then--unlike the nomad--he will not change his former abode. He is
and remains a parasite, a sponger who, like a pernicious bacillus,
spreads over wider and wider areas according as some favourable area
attracts him. The effect produced by his presence is also like that of
the vampire; for wherever he establishes himself the people who grant
him hospitality are bound to be bled to death sooner or later. Thus the
Jew has at all times lived in States that have belonged to other races
and within the organization of those States he had formed a State of his
own, which is, however, hidden behind the mask of a 'religious
community', as long as external circumstances do not make it advisable
for this community to declare its true nature. As soon as the Jew feels
himself sufficiently established in his position to be able to hold it
without a disguise, he lifts the mask and suddenly appears in the
character which so many did not formerly believe or wish to see: namely
that of the Jew.

The life which the Jew lives as a parasite thriving on the substance of
other nations and States has resulted in developing that specific
character which Schopenhauer once described when he spoke of the Jew as
'The Great Master of Lies'. The kind of existence which he leads forces
the Jew to the systematic use of falsehood, just as naturally as the
inhabitants of northern climates are forced to wear warm clothes.

He can live among other nations and States only as long as he succeeds
in persuading them that the Jews are not a distinct people but the
representatives of a religious faith who thus constitute a 'religious
community', though this be of a peculiar character.

As a matter of fact, however, this is the first of his great falsehoods.

He is obliged to conceal his own particular character and mode of life
that he may be allowed to continue his existence as a parasite among the
nations. The greater the intelligence of the individual Jew, the better
will he succeed in deceiving others. His success in this line may even
go so far that the people who grant him hospitality may be led to
believe that the Jew among them is a genuine Frenchman, for instance, or
Englishman or German or Italian, who just happens to belong to a
religious denomination which is different from that prevailing in these
countries. Especially in circles concerned with the executive
administration of the State, where the officials generally have only a
minimum of historical sense, the Jew is able to impose his infamous
deception with comparative ease. In these circles independent thinking
is considered a sin against the sacred rules according to which official
promotion takes place. It is therefore not surprising that even to-day
in the Bavarian government offices, for example, there is not the
slightest suspicion that the Jews form a distinct nation themselves and
are not merely the adherents of a 'Confession', though one glance at the
Press which belongs to the Jews ought to furnish sufficient evidence to
the contrary even for those who possess only the smallest degree of
intelligence. The JEWISH ECHO, however, is not an official gazette and
therefore not authoritative in the eyes of those government potentates.

Jewry has always been a nation of a definite racial character and never
differentiated merely by the fact of belonging to a certain religion. At
a very early date, urged on by the desire to make their way in the
world, the Jews began to cast about for a means whereby they might
distract such attention as might prove inconvenient for them. What could
be more effective and at the same time more above suspicion than to
borrow and utilize the idea of the religious community? Here also
everything is copied, or rather stolen; for the Jew could not possess
any religious institution which had developed out of his own
consciousness, seeing that he lacks every kind of idealism; which means
that belief in a life beyond this terrestrial existence is foreign to
him. In the Aryan mind no religion can ever be imagined unless it
embodies the conviction that life in some form or other will continue
after death. As a matter of fact, the Talmud is not a book that lays
down principles according to which the individual should prepare for the
life to come. It only furnishes rules for a practical and convenient
life in this world.

The religious teaching of the Jews is principally a collection of
instructions for maintaining the Jewish blood pure and for regulating
intercourse between Jews and the rest of the world: that is to say,
their relation with non-Jews. But the Jewish religious teaching is not
concerned with moral problems. It is rather concerned with economic
problems, and very petty ones at that. In regard to the moral value of
the religious teaching of the Jews there exist and always have existed
quite exhaustive studies (not from the Jewish side; for whatever the
Jews have written on this question has naturally always been of a
tendentious character) which show up the kind of religion that the Jews
have in a light that makes it look very uncanny to the Aryan mind. The
Jew himself is the best example of the kind of product which this
religious training evolves. His life is of this world only and his
mentality is as foreign to the true spirit of Christianity as his
character was foreign to the great Founder of this new creed two
thousand years ago. And the Founder of Christianity made no secret
indeed of His estimation of the Jewish people. When He found it
necessary He drove those enemies of the human race out of the Temple of
God; because then, as always, they used religion as a means of advancing
their commercial interests. But at that time Christ was nailed to the
Cross for his attitude towards the Jews; whereas our modern Christians
enter into party politics and when elections are being held they debase
themselves to beg for Jewish votes. They even enter into political
intrigues with the atheistic Jewish parties against the interests of
their own Christian nation.

On this first and fundamental lie, the purpose of which is to make
people believe that Jewry is not a nation but a religion, other lies are
subsequently based. One of those further lies, for example, is in
connection with the language spoken by the Jew. For him language is not
an instrument for the expression of his inner thoughts but rather a
means of cloaking them. When talking French his thoughts are Jewish and
when writing German rhymes he only gives expression to the character of
his own race.

As long as the Jew has not succeeded in mastering other peoples he is
forced to speak their language whether he likes it or not. But the
moment that the world would become the slave of the Jew it would have to
learn some other language (Esperanto, for example) so that by this means
the Jew could dominate all the more easily.

How much the whole existence of this people is based on a permanent
falsehood is proved in a unique way by 'The Protocols of the Elders of
Zion', which are so violently repudiated by the Jews. With groans and
moans, the FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG repeats again and again that these are
forgeries. This alone is evidence in favour of their authenticity. What
many Jews unconsciously wish to do is here clearly set forth. It is not
necessary to ask out of what Jewish brain these revelations sprang; but
what is of vital interest is that they disclose, with an almost
terrifying precision, the mentality and methods of action characteristic
of the Jewish people and these writings expound in all their various
directions the final aims towards which the Jews are striving. The study
of real happenings, however, is the best way of judging the authenticity
of those documents. If the historical developments which have taken
place within the last few centuries be studied in the light of this book
we shall understand why the Jewish Press incessantly repudiates and
denounces it. For the Jewish peril will be stamped out the moment the
general public come into possession of that book and understand it.

In order to get to know the Jew properly it is necessary to study the
road which he has been following among the other peoples during the last
few centuries. One example will suffice to give a clear insight here.
Since his career has been the same at all epochs--just as the people at
whose expense he has lived have remained the same--for the purposes of
making the requisite analysis it will be best to mark his progress by
stages. For the sake of simplicity we shall indicate these stages by
letters of the alphabet.

The first Jews came into what was then called Germania during the period
of the Roman invasion; and, as usual, they came as merchants. During the
turmoil caused by the great migrations of the German tribes the Jews
seem to have disappeared. We may therefore consider the period when the
Germans formed the first political communities as the beginning of that
process whereby Central and Northern Europe was again, and this time
permanently, Judaized. A development began which has always been the
same or similar wherever and whenever Jews came into contact with Aryan
peoples.

(a) As soon as the first permanent settlements had been established the
Jew was suddenly 'there'. He arrived as a merchant and in the beginning
did not trouble to disguise his nationality. He still remained openly a
Jew, partly it may be because he knew too little of the language. It may
also be that people of other races refused to mix with him, so that he
could not very well adopt any other appearance than that of a foreign
merchant. Because of his subtlety and cunning and the lack of experience
on the part of the people whose guest he became, it was not to his
disadvantage openly to retain his Jewish character. This may even have
been advantageous to him; for the foreigner was received kindly.

(b) Slowly but steadily he began to take part in the economic life
around him; not as a producer, however, but only as a middleman. His
commercial cunning, acquired through thousands of years of negotiation
as an intermediary, made him superior in this field to the Aryans, who
were still quite ingenuous and indeed clumsy and whose honesty was
unlimited; so that after a short while commerce seemed destined to
become a Jewish monopoly. The Jew began by lending out money at usurious
interest, which is a permanent trade of his. It was he who first
introduced the payment of interest on borrowed money. The danger which
this innovation involved was not at first recognized; indeed the
innovation was welcomed, because it offered momentary advantages.

(c) At this stage the Jew had become firmly settled down; that is to
say, he inhabited special sections of the cities and towns and had his
own quarter in the market-places. Thus he gradually came to form a State
within a State. He came to look upon the commercial domain and all money
transactions as a privilege belonging exclusively to himself and he
exploited it ruthlessly.

(d) At this stage finance and trade had become his complete monopoly.
Finally, his usurious rate of interest aroused opposition and the
increasing impudence which the Jew began to manifest all round stirred
up popular indignation, while his display of wealth gave rise to popular
envy. The cup of his iniquity became full to the brim when he included
landed property among his commercial wares and degraded the soil to the
level of a market commodity. Since he himself never cultivated the soil
but considered it as an object to be exploited, on which the peasant may
still remain but only on condition that he submits to the most heartless
exactions of his new master, public antipathy against the Jew steadily
increased and finally turned into open animosity. His extortionate
tyranny became so unbearable that people rebelled against his control
and used physical violence against him. They began to scrutinize this
foreigner somewhat more closely, and then began to discover the
repulsive traits and characteristics inherent in him, until finally an
abyss opened between the Jews and their hosts, across which abyss there
could be no further contact.

In times of distress a wave of public anger has usually arisen against
the Jew; the masses have taken the law into their own hands; they have
seized Jewish property and ruined the Jew in their urge to protect
themselves against what they consider to be a scourge of God. Having
come to know the Jew intimately through the course of centuries, in
times of distress they looked upon his presence among them as a public
danger comparable only to the plague.

(e) But then the Jew began to reveal his true character. He paid court
to governments, with servile flattery, used his money to ingratiate
himself further and thus regularly secured for himself once again the
privilege of exploiting his victim. Although public wrath flared up
against this eternal profiteer and drove him out, after a few years he
reappeared in those same places and carried on as before. No persecution
could force him to give up his trade of exploiting other people and no
amount of harrying succeeded in driving him out permanently. He always
returned after a short time and it was always the old story with him.

In an effort to save at least the worst from happening, legislation was
passed which debarred the Jew from obtaining possession of the land.

(f) In proportion as the powers of kings and princes increased, the Jew
sidled up to them. He begged for 'charters' and 'privileges' which those
gentlemen, who were generally in financial straits, gladly granted if
they received adequate payment in return. However high the price he has
to pay, the Jew will succeed in getting it back within a few years from
operating the privilege he has acquired, even with interest and compound
interest. He is a real leech who clings to the body of his unfortunate
victims and cannot be removed; so that when the princes found themselves
in need once again they took the blood from his swollen veins with their
own hands.

This game was repeated unendingly. In the case of those who were called
'German Princes', the part they played was quite as contemptible as that
played by the Jew. They were a real scourge for their people. Their
compeers may be found in some of the government ministers of our time.

It was due to the German princes that the German nation could not
succeed in definitely freeing itself from the Jewish peril.
Unfortunately the situation did not change at a later period. The
princes finally received the reward which they had a thousand-fold
deserved for all the crimes committed by them against their own people.
They had allied themselves with Satan and later on they discovered that
they were in Satan's embrace.

(g) By permitting themselves to be entangled in the toils of the Jew,
the princes prepared their own downfall. The position which they held
among their people was slowly but steadily undermined not only by their
continued failure to guard the interests of their subjects but by the
positive exploitation of them. The Jew calculated exactly the time when
the downfall of the princes was approaching and did his best to hasten
it. He intensified their financial difficulties by hindering them in the
exercise of their duty towards their people, by inveigling them through
the most servile flatteries into further personal display, whereby he
made himself more and more indispensable to them. His astuteness, or
rather his utter unscrupulousness, in money affairs enabled him to exact
new income from the princes, to squeeze the money out of them and then
have it spent as quickly as possible. Every Court had its 'Court Jews',
as this plague was called, who tortured the innocent victims until they
were driven to despair; while at the same time this Jew provided the
means which the princes squandered on their own pleasures. It is not to
be wondered at that these ornaments of the human race became the
recipients of official honours and even were admitted into the ranks of
the hereditary nobility, thus contributing not only to expose that
social institution to ridicule but also to contaminate it from the
inside.

Naturally the Jew could now exploit the position to which he had
attained and push himself forward even more rapidly than before. Finally
he became baptized and thus entitled to all the rights and privileges
which belonged to the children of the nation on which he preyed. This
was a high-class stroke of business for him, and he often availed
himself of it, to the great joy of the Church, which was proud of having
gained a new child in the Faith, and also to the joy of Israel, which
was happy at seeing the trick pulled off successfully.

(h) At this stage a transformation began to take place in the world of
Jewry. Up to now they had been Jews--that is to say, they did not
hitherto set any great value on pretending to be something else; and
anyhow the distinctive characteristics which separated them from other
races could not be easily overcome. Even as late as the time of
Frederick the Great nobody looked upon the Jews as other than a
'foreign' people, and Goethe rose up in revolt against the failure
legally to prohibit marriage between Christians and Jews. Goethe was
certainly no reactionary and no time-server. What he said came from the
voice of the blood and the voice of reason. Notwithstanding the
disgraceful happenings taking place in Court circles, the people
recognized instinctively that the Jew was the foreign body in their own
flesh and their attitude towards him was directed by recognition of that
fact.

But a change was now destined to take place. In the course of more than
a thousand years the Jew had learned to master the language of his hosts
so thoroughly that he considered he might now lay stress on his Jewish
character and emphasize the 'Germanism' a bit more. Though it must have
appeared ridiculous and absurd at first sight, he was impudent enough to
call himself a 'Teuton', which in this case meant a German. In that way
began one of the most infamous impositions that can be imagined. The Jew
did not possess the slightest traces of the German character. He had
only acquired the art of twisting the German language to his own uses,
and that in a disgusting way, without having assimilated any other
feature of the German character. Therefore his command of the language
was the sole ground on which he could pretend to be a German. It is not
however by the tie of language, but exclusively by the tie of blood that
the members of a race are bound together. And the Jew himself knows this
better than any other, seeing that he attaches so little importance to
the preservation of his own language while at the same time he strives
his utmost to maintain his blood free from intermixture with that of
other races. A man may acquire and use a new language without much
trouble; but it is only his old ideas that he expresses through the new
language. His inner nature is not modified thereby. The best proof of
this is furnished by the Jew himself. He may speak a thousand tongues
and yet his Jewish nature will remain always one and the same. His
distinguishing characteristics were the same when he spoke the Latin
language at Ostia two thousand years ago as a merchant in grain, as they
are to-day when he tries to sell adulterated flour with the aid of his
German gibberish. He is always the same Jew. That so obvious a fact is
not recognized by the average head-clerk in a German government
department, or by an officer in the police administration, is also a
self-evident and natural fact; since it would be difficult to find
another class of people who are so lacking in instinct and intelligence
as the civil servants employed by our modern German State authorities.

The reason why, at the stage I am dealing with, the Jew so suddenly
decided to transform himself into a German is not difficult to discover.
He felt the power of the princes slowly crumbling and therefore looked
about to find a new social plank on which he might stand. Furthermore,
his financial domination over all the spheres of economic life had
become so powerful that he felt he could no longer sustain that enormous
structure or add to it unless he were admitted to the full enjoyment of
the 'rights of citizenship.' He aimed at both, preservation and
expansion; for the higher he could climb the more alluring became the
prospect of reaching the old goal, which was promised to him in ancient
times, namely world-rulership, and which he now looked forward to with
feverish eyes, as he thought he saw it visibly approaching. Therefore
all his efforts were now directed to becoming a fully-fledged citizen,
endowed with all civil and political rights.

That was the reason for his emancipation from the Ghetto.

(i) And thus the Court Jew slowly developed into the national Jew. But
naturally he still remained associated with persons in higher quarters
and he even attempted to push his way further into the inner circles of
the ruling set. But at the same time some other representatives of his
race were currying favour with the people. If we remember the crimes the
Jew had committed against the masses of the people in the course of so
many centuries, how repeatedly and ruthlessly he exploited them and how
he sucked out even the very marrow of their substance, and when we
further remember how they gradually came to hate him and finally
considered him as a public scourge--then we may well understand how
difficult the Jew must have found this final transformation. Yes,
indeed, it must tax all their powers to be able to present themselves as
'friends of humanity' to the poor victims whom they have skinned raw.

Therefore the Jew began by making public amends for the crimes which he
had committed against the people in the past. He started his
metamorphosis by first appearing as the 'benefactor' of humanity. Since
his new philanthropic policy had a very concrete aim in view, he could
not very well apply to himself the biblical counsel, not to allow the
left hand to know what the right hand is giving. He felt obliged to let
as many people as possible know how deeply the sufferings of the masses
grieved him and to what excesses of personal sacrifice he was ready to
go in order to help them. With this manifestation of innate modesty, so
typical of the Jew, he trumpeted his virtues before the world until
finally the world actually began to believe him. Those who refused to
share this belief were considered to be doing him an injustice. Thus
after a little while he began to twist things around, so as to make it
appear that it was he who had always been wronged, and vice versa. There
were really some particularly foolish people who could not help pitying
this poor unfortunate creature of a Jew.

Attention may be called to the fact that, in spite of his proclaimed
readiness to make personal sacrifices, the Jew never becomes poor
thereby. He has a happy knack of always making both ends meet.
Occasionally his benevolence might be compared to the manure which is
not spread over the field merely for the purpose of getting rid of it,
but rather with a view to future produce. Anyhow, after a comparatively
short period of time, the world was given to know that the Jew had
become a general benefactor and philanthropist. What a transformation!

What is looked upon as more or less natural when done by other people
here became an object of astonishment, and even sometimes of admiration,
because it was considered so unusual in a Jew. That is why he has
received more credit for his acts of benevolence than ordinary mortals.

And something more: The Jew became liberal all of a sudden and began to
talk enthusiastically of how human progress must be encouraged.
Gradually he assumed the air of being the herald of a new age.

Yet at the same time he continued to undermine the ground-work of that
part of the economic system in which the people have the most practical
interest. He bought up stock in the various national undertakings and
thus pushed his influence into the circuit of national production,
making this latter an object of buying and selling on the stock
exchange, or rather what might be called the pawn in a financial game of
chess, and thus ruining the basis on which personal proprietorship alone
is possible. Only with the entrance of the Jew did that feeling of
estrangement, between employers and employees begin which led at a later
date to the political class-struggle.

Finally the Jew gained an increasing influence in all economic
undertakings by means of his predominance in the stock-exchange. If not
the ownership, at least he secured control of the working power of the
nation.

In order to strengthen his political position, he directed his efforts
towards removing the barrier of racial and civic discrimination which
had hitherto hindered his advance at every turn. With characteristic
tenacity he championed the cause of religious tolerance for this
purpose; and in the freemason organization, which had fallen completely
into his hands, he found a magnificent weapon which helped him to
achieve his ends. Government circles, as well as the higher sections of
the political and commercial bourgeoisie, fell a prey to his plans
through his manipulation of the masonic net, though they themselves did
not even suspect what was happening.

Only the people as such, or rather the masses which were just becoming
conscious of their own power and were beginning to use it in the fight
for their rights and liberties, had hitherto escaped the grip of the
Jew. At least his influence had not yet penetrated to the deeper and
wider sections of the people. This was unsatisfactory to him. The most
important phase of his policy was therefore to secure control over the
people. The Jew realized that in his efforts to reach the position of
public despot he would need a 'peace-maker.' And he thought he could
find a peace-maker if he could whip-in sufficient extensive sections of
the bourgeois. But the freemasons failed to catch the
glove-manufacturers and the linen-weavers in the frail meshes of their
net. And so it became necessary to find a grosser and withal a more
effective means. Thus another weapon beside that of freemasonry would
have to be secured. This was the Press. The Jew exercised all his skill
and tenacity in getting hold of it. By means of the Press he began
gradually to control public life in its entirety. He began to drive it
along the road which he had chosen to reach his own ends; for he was now
in a position to create and direct that force which, under the name of
'public opinion' is better known to-day than it was some decades ago.

Simultaneously the Jew gave himself the air of thirsting after
knowledge. He lauded every phase of progress, particularly those phases
which led to the ruin of others; for he judges all progress and
development from the standpoint of the advantages which these bring to
his own people. When it brings him no such advantages he is the deadly
enemy of enlightenment and hates all culture which is real culture as
such. All the knowledge which he acquires in the schools of others is
exploited by him exclusively in the service of his own race.

Even more watchfully than ever before, he now stood guard over his
Jewish nationality. Though bubbling over with 'enlightenment',
'progress', 'liberty', 'humanity', etc., his first care was to preserve
the racial integrity of his own people. He occasionally bestowed one of
his female members on an influential Christian; but the racial stock of
his male descendants was always preserved unmixed fundamentally. He
poisons the blood of others but preserves his own blood unadulterated.
The Jew scarcely ever marries a Christian girl, but the Christian takes
a Jewess to wife. The mongrels that are a result of this latter union
always declare themselves on the Jewish side. Thus a part of the higher
nobility in particular became completely degenerate. The Jew was well
aware of this fact and systematically used this means of disarming the
intellectual leaders of the opposite race. To mask his tactics and fool
his victims, he talks of the equality of all men, no matter what their
race or colour may be. And the simpletons begin to believe him.

Since his whole nature still retains too foreign an odour for the broad
masses of the people to allow themselves to be caught in his snare, he
uses the Press to put before the public a picture of himself which is
entirely untrue to life but well designed to serve his purpose. In the
comic papers special efforts are made to represent the Jews as an
inoffensive little race which, like all others, has its peculiarities.
In spite of their manners, which may seem a bit strange, the comic
papers present the Jews as fundamentally good-hearted and honourable.
Attempts are generally made to make them appear insignificant rather
than dangerous.

During this phase of his progress the chief goal of the Jew was the
victory of democracy, or rather the supreme hegemony of the
parliamentary system, which embodies his concept of democracy. This
institution harmonises best with his purposes; for thus the personal
element is eliminated and in its place we have the dunder-headed
majority, inefficiency and, last but by no means least, knavery.

The final result must necessarily have been the overthrow of the
monarchy, which had to happen sooner or later.

(j) A tremendous economic development transformed the social structure
of the nation. The small artisan class slowly disappeared and the
factory worker, who took its place, had scarcely any chance of
establishing an independent existence of his own but sank more and more
to the level of a proletariat. An essential characteristic of the
factory worker is that he is scarcely ever able to provide for an
independent source of livelihood which will support him in later life.
In the true sense of the word, he is 'disinherited'. His old age is a
misery to him and can hardly be called life at all.

In earlier times a similar situation had been created, which had
imperatively demanded a solution and for which a solution was found.
Side by side with the peasant and the artisan, a new class was gradually
developed, namely that of officials and employees, especially those
employed in the various services of the State. They also were a
'disinherited' class, in the true sense of the word. But the State found
a remedy for this unhealthy situation by taking upon itself the duty of
providing for the State official who could establish nothing that would
be an independent means of livelihood for himself in his old age. Thus
the system of pensions and retiring allowances was introduced. Private
enterprises slowly followed this example in increasing numbers; so that
to-day every permanent non-manual worker receives a pension in his later
years, if the firm which he has served is one that has reached or gone
beyond a certain size. It was only by virtue of the assurance given of
State officials, that they would be cared for in their old age. that
such a high degree of unselfish devotion to duty was developed, which in
pre-war times was one of the distinguising characteristics of German
officials.

Thus a whole class which had no personal property was saved from
destitution by an intelligent system of provision, and found a place in
the social structure of the national community.

The problem is now put before the State and nation, but this time in a
much larger form. When the new industries sprang up and developed,
millions of people left the countryside and the villages to take up
employment in the big factories. The conditions under which this new
class found itself forced to live were worse than miserable. The more or
less mechanical transformation of the methods of work hitherto in vogue
among the artisans and peasants did not fit in well with the habits or
mentality of this new working-class. The way in which the peasants and
artisans had formerly worked had nothing comparable to the intensive
labour of the new factory worker. In the old trades time did not play a
highly important role, but it became an essential element in the new
industrial system. The formal taking over of the old working hours into
the mammoth industrial enterprises had fatal results. The actual amount
of work hitherto accomplished within a certain time was comparatively
small, because the modern methods of intensive production were then
unknown. Therefore, though in the older system a working day of fourteen
or even fifteen hours was not unendurable, now it was beyond the
possibilities of human endurance because in the new system every minute
was utilized to the extreme. This absurd transference of the old working
hours to the new industrial system proved fatal in two directions.
First, it ruined the health of the workers; secondly, it destroyed their
faith in a superior law of justice. Finally, on the one hand a miserable
wage was received and, on the other, the employer held a much more
lucrative position than before. Hence a striking difference between the
ways of life on the one side and on the other.

In the open country there could be no social problem, because the master
and the farm-hand were doing the same kind of work and doing it
together. They ate their food in common, and sometimes even out of the
same dish. But in this sphere also the new system introduced an entirely
different set of conditions between masters and men.

The division created between employer and employees seems not to have
extended to all branches of life. How far this Judaizing process has
been allowed to take effect among our people is illustrated by the fact
that manual labour not only receives practically no recognition but is
even considered degrading. That is not a natural German attitude. It is
due to the introduction of a foreign element into our lives, and that
foreign element is the Jewish spirit, one of the effects of which has
been to transform the high esteem in which our handicrafts once were
held into a definite feeling that all physical labour is something base
and unworthy.

Thus a new social class has grown up which stands in low esteem; and the
day must come when we shall have to face the question of whether the
nation will be able to make this class an integral part of the social
community or whether the difference of status now existing will become a
permanent gulf separating this class from the others.

One thing, however, is certain: This class does not include the worst
elements of the community in its ranks. Rather the contrary is the
truth: it includes the most energetic parts of the nation. The
sophistication which is the result of a so-called civilization has not
yet exercised its disintegrating and degenerating influence on this
class. The broad masses of this new lower class, constituted by the
manual labourers, have not yet fallen a prey to the morbid weakness of
pacifism. These are still robust and, if necessary, they can be brutal.

While our bourgeoisie middle class paid no attention at all to this
momentous problem and indifferently allowed events to take their course,
the Jew seized upon the manifold possibilities which the situation
offered him for the future. While on the one hand he organized
capitalistic methods of exploitation to their ultimate degree of
efficiency, he curried favour with the victims of his policy and his
power and in a short while became the leader of their struggle against
himself. 'Against himself' is here only a figurative way of speaking;
for this 'Great Master of Lies' knows how to appear in the guise of the
innocent and throw the guilt on others. Since he had the impudence to
take a personal lead among the masses, they never for a moment suspected
that they were falling a prey to one of the most infamous deceits ever
practised. And yet that is what it actually was.

The moment this new class had arisen out of the general economic
situation and taken shape as a definite body in the social order, the
Jew saw clearly where he would find the necessary pacemaker for his own
progressive march. At first he had used the bourgeois class as a
battering-ram against the feudal order; and now he used the worker
against the bourgeois world. Just as he succeeded in obtaining civic
rights by intrigues carried on under the protection of the bourgeois
class, he now hoped that by joining in the struggle which the workers
were waging for their own existence he would be able to obtain full
control over them.

When that moment arrives, then the only objective the workers will have
to fight for will be the future of the Jewish people. Without knowing
it, the worker is placing himself at the service of the very power
against which he believes he is fighting. Apparently he is made to fight
against capital and thus he is all the more easily brought to fight for
capitalist interests. Outcries are systematically raised against
international capital but in reality it is against the structure of
national economics that these slogans are directed. The idea is to
demolish this structure and on its ruins triumphantly erect the
structure of the International Stock Exchange.

In this line of action the procedure of the Jew was as follows:

He kowtowed to the worker, hypocritically pretended to feel pity for him
and his lot, and even to be indignant at the misery and poverty which
the worker had to endure. That is the way in which the Jew endeavoured
to gain the confidence of the working class. He showed himself eager to
study their various hardships, whether real or imaginary, and strove to
awaken a yearning on the part of the workers to change the conditions
under which they lived. The Jew artfully enkindled that innate yearning
for social justice which is a typical Aryan characteristic. Once that
yearning became alive it was transformed into hatred against those in
more fortunate circumstances of life. The next stage was to give a
precise philosophical aspect to the struggle for the elimination of
social wrongs. And thus the Marxist doctrine was invented.

By presenting his doctrine as part and parcel of a just revindication of
social rights, the Jew propagated the doctrine all the more effectively.
But at the same time he provoked the opposition of decent people who
refused to admit these demands which, because of the form and
pseudo-philosophical trimmings in which they are presented, seemed
fundamentally unjust and impossible for realization. For, under the
cloak of purely social concepts there are hidden aims which are of a
Satanic character. These aims are even expounded in the open with the
clarity of unlimited impudence. This Marxist doctrine is an individual
mixture of human reason and human absurdity; but the combination is
arranged in such a way that only the absurd part of it could ever be put
into practice, but never the reasonable part of it. By categorically
repudiating the personal worth of the individual and also the nation and
its racial constituent, this doctrine destroys the fundamental basis of
all civilization; for civilization essentially depends on these very
factors. Such is the true essence of the Marxist WELTANSCHAUUNG, so far
as the word WELTANSCHAUUNG can be applied at all to this phantom
arising from a criminal brain. The destruction of the concept of
personality and of race removes the chief obstacle which barred the way
to domination of the social body by its inferior elements, which are the
Jews.

The very absurdity of the economic and political theories of Marxism
gives the doctrine its peculiar significance. Because of its
pseudo-logic, intelligent people refuse to support it, while all those
who are less accustomed to use their intellectual faculties, or who have
only a rudimentary notion of economic principles, join the Marxist cause
with flying banners. The intelligence behind the movement--for even this
movement needs intelligence if it is to subsist--is supplied by the Jews
themselves, naturally of course as a gratuitous service which is at the
same time a sacrifice on their part.

Thus arose a movement which was composed exclusively of manual workers
under the leadership of Jews. To all external appearances, this movement
strives to ameliorate the conditions under which the workers live; but
in reality its aim is to enslave and thereby annihilate the non-Jewish
races.

The propaganda which the freemasons had carried on among the so-called
intelligentsia, whereby their pacifist teaching paralysed the instinct
for national self-preservation, was now extended to the broad masses of
the workers and bourgeoisie by means of the Press, which was almost
everywhere in Jewish hands. To those two instruments of disintegration a
third and still more ruthless one was added, namely, the organization of
brute physical force among the masses. As massed columns of attacks, the
Marxist troops stormed those parts of the social order which had been
left standing after the two former undermining operations had done their
work.

The combined activity of all these forces has been marvellously managed.
And it will not be surprising if it turns out that those institutions
which have always appeared as the organs of the more or less traditional
authority of the State should now fall before the Marxist attack. Among
our higher and highest State officials, with very few exceptions, the
Jew has found the cost complacent backers in his work of destruction. An
attitude of sneaking servility towards 'superiors' and supercilious
arrogance towards 'inferiors' are the characteristics of this class of
people, as well as a grade of stupidity which is really frightening and
at the same time a towering self-conceit, which has been so consistently
developed to make it amusing.

But these qualities are of the greatest utility to the Jew in his
dealings with our authorities. Therefore they are qualities which he
appreciates most in the officials.

If I were to sketch roughly the actual struggle which is now beginning I
should describe it somewhat thus:

Not satisfied with the economic conquest of the world, but also
demanding that it must come under his political control, the Jew
subdivides the organized Marxist power into two parts, which correspond
to the ultimate objectives that are to be fought for in this struggle
which is carried on under the direction of the Jew. To outward
appearance, these seem to be two independent movements, but in reality
they constitute an indivisible unity. The two divisions are: The
political movement and the trades union movement.

The trades union movement has to gather in the recruits. It offers
assistance and protection to the workers in the hard struggle which they
have to wage for the bare means of existence, a struggle which has been
occasioned by the greediness and narrow-mindedness of many of the
industrialists. Unless the workers be ready to surrender all claims to
an existence which the dignity of human nature itself demands, and
unless they are ready to submit their fate to the will of employers who
in many cases have no sense of human responsibilities and are utterly
callous to human wants, then the worker must necessarily take matters
into his own hands, seeing that the organized social community--that is
to say, the State--pays no attention to his needs.

The so-called national-minded bourgeoisie, blinded by its own material
interests, opposes this life-or-death struggle of the workers and places
the most difficult obstacles in their way. Not only does this
bourgeoisie hinder all efforts to enact legislation which would shorten
the inhumanly long hours of work, prohibit child-labour, grant security
and protection to women and improve the hygienic conditions of the
workshops and the dwellings of the working-class, but while the
bourgeoisie hinders all this the shrewd Jew takes the cause of the
oppressed into his own hands. He gradually becomes the leader of the
trades union movements, which is an easy task for him, because he does
not genuinely intend to find remedies for the social wrong: he pursues
only one objective, namely, to gather and consolidate a body of
followers who will act under his commands as an armed weapon in the
economic war for the destruction of national economic independence. For,
while a sound social policy has to move between the two poles of
securing a decent level of public health and welfare on the one hand
and, on the other, that of safeguarding the independence of the economic
life of the nation, the Jew does not take these poles into account at
all. The destruction of both is one of his main objects. He would ruin,
rather than safeguard, the independence of the national economic system.
Therefore, as the leader of the trades union movement, he has no
scruples about putting forward demands which not only go beyond the
declared purpose of the movement but could not be carried into effect
without ruining the national economic structure. On the other hand, he
has no interest in seeing a healthy and sturdy population develop; he
would be more content to see the people degenerate into an unthinking
herd which could be reduced to total subjection. Because these are his
final objectives, he can afford to put forward the most absurd claims.
He knows very well that these claims can never be realized and that
therefore nothing in the actual state of affairs could be altered by
them, but that the most they can do is to arouse the spirit of unrest
among the masses. That is exactly the purpose which he wishes such
propaganda to serve and not a real and honest improvement of the social
conditions.

The Jews will therefore remain the unquestioned leaders of the trades
union movement so long as a campaign is not undertaken, which must be
carried out on gigantic lines, for the enlightenment of the masses; so
that they will be enabled better to understand the causes of their
misery. Or the same end might be achieved if the government authorities
would get rid of the Jew and his work. For as long as the masses remain
so ill-informed as they actually are to-day, and as long as the State
remains as indifferent to their lot as it now is, the masses will follow
whatever leader makes them the most extravagant promises in regard to
economic matters. The Jew is a past master at this art and his
activities are not hampered by moral considerations of any kind.

Naturally it takes him only a short time to defeat all his competitors
in this field and drive them from the scene of action. In accordance
with the general brutality and rapacity of his nature, he turns the
trades union movement into an organization for the exercise of physical
violence. The resistance of those whose common sense has hitherto saved
them from surrendering to the Jewish dictatorship is now broken down by
terrorization. The success of that kind of activity is enormous.

Parallel with this, the political organization advances. It operates
hand-in-hand with the trades union movement, inasmuch as the latter
prepares the masses for the political organization and even forces them
into it. This is also the source that provides the money which the
political organization needs to keep its enormous apparatus in action.
The trades union organization is the organ of control for the political
activity of its members and whips in the masses for all great political
demonstrations. In the end it ceases to struggle for economic interests
but places its chief weapon, the refusal to continue work--which takes
the form of a general strike--at the disposal of the political movement.

By means of a Press whose contents are adapted to the level of the most
ignorant readers, the political and trades union organizations are
provided with an instrument which prepares the lowest stratum of the
nation for a campaign of ruthless destruction. It is not considered part
of the purpose of this Press to inspire its readers with ideals which
might help them to lift their minds above the sordid conditions of their
daily lives; but, on the contrary, it panders to their lowest instincts.
Among the lazy-minded and self-seeking sections of the masses this kind
of speculation turns out lucrative.

It is this Press above all which carries on a fanatical campaign of
calumny, strives to tear down everything that might be considered as a
mainstay of national independence and to sabotage all cultural values as
well as to destroy the autonomy of the national economic system.

It aims its attack especially against all men of character who refuse to
fall into line with the Jewish efforts to obtain control over the State
or who appear dangerous to the Jews merely because of their superior
intelligence. For in order to incur the enmity of the Jew it is not
necessary to show any open hostility towards him. It is quite sufficient
if one be considered capable of opposing the Jew some time in the future
or using his abilities and character to enhance the power and position
of a nation which the Jew finds hostile to himself.

The Jewish instinct, which never fails where these problems have to be
dealt with, readily discerns the true mentality of those whom the Jew
meets in everyday life; and those who are not of a kindred spirit with
him may be sure of being listed among his enemies. Since the Jew is not
the object of aggression but the aggressor himself, he considers as his
enemies not only those who attack him but also those who may be capable
of resisting him. The means which he employs to break people of this
kind, who may show themselves decent and upright, are not the open means
generally used in honourable conflict, but falsehood and calumny.

He will stop at nothing. His utterly low-down conduct is so appalling
that one really cannot be surprised if in the imagination of our people
the Jew is pictured as the incarnation of Satan and the symbol of evil.

The ignorance of the broad masses as regards the inner character of the
Jew, and the lack of instinct and insight that our upper classes
display, are some of the reasons which explain how it is that so many
people fall an easy prey to the systematic campaign of falsehood which
the Jew carries on.

While the upper classes, with their innate cowardliness, turn away from
anyone whom the Jew thus attacks with lies and calumny, the common
people are credulous of everything, whether because of their ignorance
or their simple-mindedness. Government authorities wrap themselves up in
a robe of silence, but more frequently they persecute the victims of
Jewish attacks in order to stop the campaign in the Jewish Press. To the
fatuous mind of the government official such a line of conduct appears
to belong to the policy of upholding the authority of the State and
preserving public order. Gradually the Marxist weapon in the hands of
the Jew becomes a constant bogy to decent people. Sometimes the fear of
it sticks in the brain or weighs upon them as a kind of nightmare.
People begin to quail before this fearful foe and therewith become his
victims.

(k) The Jewish domination in the State seems now so fully assured that
not only can he now afford to call himself a Jew once again, but he even
acknowledges freely and openly what his ideas are on racial and
political questions. A section of the Jews avows itself quite openly as
an alien people, but even here there is another falsehood. When the
Zionists try to make the rest of the world believe that the new national
consciousness of the Jews will be satisfied by the establishment of a
Jewish State in Palestine, the Jews thereby adopt another means to dupe
the simple-minded Gentile. They have not the slightest intention of
building up a Jewish State in Palestine so as to live in it. What they
really are aiming at is to establish a central organization for their
international swindling and cheating. As a sovereign State, this cannot
be controlled by any of the other States. Therefore it can serve as a
refuge for swindlers who have been found out and at the same time a
high-school for the training of other swindlers.

As a sign of their growing presumption and sense of security, a certain
section of them openly and impudently proclaim their Jewish nationality
while another section hypocritically pretend that they are German,
French or English as the case may be. Their blatant behaviour in their
relations with other people shows how clearly they envisage their day of
triumph in the near future.

The black-haired Jewish youth lies in wait for hours on end, satanically
glaring at and spying on the unsuspicious girl whom he plans to seduce,
adulterating her blood and removing her from the bosom of her own
people. The Jew uses every possible means to undermine the racial
foundations of a subjugated people. In his systematic efforts to ruin
girls and women he strives to break down the last barriers of
discrimination between him and other peoples. The Jews were responsible
for bringing negroes into the Rhineland, with the ultimate idea of
bastardizing the white race which they hate and thus lowering its
cultural and political level so that the Jew might dominate. For as long
as a people remain racially pure and are conscious of the treasure of
their blood, they can never be overcome by the Jew. Never in this world
can the Jew become master of any people except a bastardized people.

That is why the Jew systematically endeavours to lower the racial
quality of a people by permanently adulterating the blood of the
individuals who make up that people.

In the field of politics he now begins to replace the idea of democracy
by introducing the dictatorship of the proletariat. In the masses
organized under the Marxist banners he has found a weapon which makes it
possible for him to discard democracy, so as to subjugate and rule in a
dictatorial fashion by the aid of brute force. He is systematically
working in two ways to bring about this revolution. These ways are the
economic and the political respectively.

Aided by international influences, he forms a ring of enemies around
those nations which have proved themselves too sturdy for him in
withstanding attacks from within. He would like to force them into war
and then, if it should be necessary to his plans, he will unfurl the
banners of revolt even while the troops are actually fighting at the
front.

Economically he brings about the destruction of the State by a
systematic method of sabotaging social enterprises until these become so
costly that they are taken out of the hands of the State and then
submitted to the control of Jewish finance. Politically he works to
withdraw from the State its means of susbsistence, inasmuch as he
undermines the foundations of national resistance and defence, destroys
the confidence which the people have in their Government, reviles the
past and its history and drags everything national down into the gutter.

Culturally his activity consists in bowdlerizing art, literature and the
theatre, holding the expressions of national sentiment up to scorn,
overturning all concepts of the sublime and beautiful, the worthy and
the good, finally dragging the people to the level of his own low
mentality.

Of religion he makes a mockery. Morality and decency are described as
antiquated prejudices and thus a systematic attack is made to undermine
those last foundations on which the national being must rest if the
nation is to struggle for its existence in this world.

(l) Now begins the great and final revolution. As soon as the Jew is in
possession of political power he drops the last few veils which have
hitherto helped to conceal his features. Out of the democratic Jew, the
Jew of the People, arises the 'Jew of the Blood', the tyrant of the
peoples. In the course of a few years he endeavours to exterminate all
those who represent the national intelligence. And by thus depriving the
peoples of their natural intellectual leaders he fits them for their
fate as slaves under a lasting despotism.

Russia furnishes the most terrible example of such a slavery. In that
country the Jew killed or starved thirty millions of the people, in a
bout of savage fanaticism and partly by the employment of inhuman
torture. And he did this so that a gang of Jewish literati and financial
bandits should dominate over a great people.

But the final consequence is not merely that the people lose all their
freedom under the domination of the Jews, but that in the end these
parasites themselves disappear. The death of the victim is followed
sooner or later by that of the vampire.

If we review all the causes which contributed to bring about the
downfall of the German people we shall find that the most profound and
decisive cause must be attributed to the lack of insight into the racial
problem and especially in the failure to recognize the Jewish danger.

It would have been easy enough to endure the defeats suffered on the
battlefields in August 1918. They were nothing when compared with the
military victories which our nation had achieved. Our downfall was not
the result of those defeats; but we were overthrown by that force which
had prepared those defeats by systematically operating for several
decades to destroy those political instincts and that moral stamina
which alone enable a people to struggle for its existence and therewith
secure the right to exist.

By neglecting the problem of preserving the racial foundations of our
national life, the old Empire abrogated the sole right which entitles a
people to live on this planet. Nations that make mongrels of their
people, or allow their people to be turned into mongrels, sin against
the Will of Eternal Providence. And thus their overthrow at the hands of
a stronger opponent cannot be looked upon as a wrong but, on the
contrary, as a restoration of justice. If a people refuses to guard and
uphold the qualities with which it has been endowed by Nature and which
have their roots in the racial blood, then such a people has no right to
complain over the loss of its earthly existence.

Everything on this earth can be made into something better. Every defeat
may be made the foundation of a future victory. Every lost war may be
the cause of a later resurgence. Every visitation of distress can give a
new impetus to human energy. And out of every oppression those forces
can develop which bring about a new re-birth of the national
soul--provided always that the racial blood is kept pure.

But the loss of racial purity will wreck inner happiness for ever. It
degrades men for all time to come. And the physical and moral
consequences can never be wiped out.

If this unique problem be studied and compared with the other problems
of life we shall easily recognize how small is their importance in
comparison with this. They are all limited to time; but the problem of
the maintenance or loss of the purity of the racial blood will last as
long as man himself lasts.

All the symptoms of decline which manifested themselves already in
pre-war times can be traced back to the racial problem.

Whether one is dealing with questions of general law, or monstrous
excrescences in economic life, of phenomena which point to a cultural
decline or political degeneration, whether it be a question of defects
in the school-system or of the evil influence which the Press exerts
over the adult population--always and everywhere these phenomena are at
bottom caused by a lack of consideration for the interests of the race
to which one's own nation belongs, or by the failure to recognize the
danger that comes from allowing a foreign race to exist within the
national body.

That is why all attempts at reform, all institutions for social relief,
all political striving, all economic progress and all apparent increase
in the general stock of knowledge, were doomed to be unproductive of any
significant results. The nation, as well as the organization which
enables it to exist--namely, the State--were not developing in inner
strength and stability, but, on the contrary, were visibly losing their
vitality. The false brilliance of the Second Empire could not disguise
the inner weakness. And every attempt to invigorate it anew failed
because the main and most important problem was left out of
consideration.

It would be a mistake to think that the followers of the various
political parties which tried to doctor the condition of the German
people, or even all their leaders, were bad in themselves or meant
wrong. Their activity even at best was doomed to fail, merely because of
the fact that they saw nothing but the symptoms of our general malady
and they tried to doctor the symptoms while they overlooked the real
cause of the disease. If one makes a methodical study of the lines along
which the old Empire developed one cannot help seeing, after a careful
political analysis, that a process of inner degeneration had already set
in even at the time when the united Empire was formed and the German
nation began to make rapid external progress. The general situation was
declining, in spite of the apparent political success and in spite of
the increasing economic wealth. At the elections to the Reichstag the
growing number of Marxist votes indicated that the internal breakdown
and the political collapse were then rapidly approaching. All the
victories of the so-called bourgeois parties were fruitless, not only
because they could not prevent the numerical increase in the growing
mass of Marxist votes, even when the bourgeois parties triumphed at the
polls, but mainly because they themselves were already infected with the
germs of decay. Though quite unaware of it, the bourgeois world was
infected from within with the deadly virus of Marxist ideas. The fact
that they sometimes openly resisted was to be explained by the
competitive strife among ambitious political leaders, rather than by
attributing it to any opposition in principle between adversaries who
were determined to fight one another to the bitter end. During all those
years only one protagonist was fighting with steadfast perseverance.
This was the Jew. The Star of David steadily ascended as the will to
national self-preservation declined.

Therefore it was not a solid national phalanx that, of itself and out of
its own feeling of solidarity, rushed to the battlefields in August
1914. But it was rather the manifestation of the last flicker from the
instinct of national self-preservation against the progress of the
paralysis with which the pacifist and Marxist doctrine threatened our
people. Even in those days when the destinies of the nation were in the
balance the internal enemy was not recognized; therefore all efforts to
resist the external enemy were bound to be in vain. Providence did not
grant the reward to the victorious sword, but followed the eternal law
of retributive justice. A profound recognition of all this was the
source of those principles and tendencies which inspire our new
movement. We were convinced that only by recognizing such truths could
we stop the national decline in Germany and lay a granite foundation on
which the State could again be built up, a State which would not be a
piece of mechanism alien to our people, constituted for economic
purposes and interests, but an organism created from the soul of the
people themselves.

A GERMAN STATE IN A GERMAN NATION




CHAPTER XII



THE FIRST STAGE IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GERMAN
NATIONAL SOCIALIST LABOUR PARTY



Here at the close of the volume I shall describe the first stage in the
progress of our movement and shall give a brief account of the problems
we had to deal with during that period. In doing this I have no
intention of expounding the ideals which we have set up as the goal of
our movement; for these ideals are so momentous in their significance
that an exposition of them will need a whole volume. Therefore I shall
devote the second volume of this book to a detailed survey of the
principles which form the programme of our movement and I shall attempt
to draw a picture of what we mean by the word 'State'. When I say 'we'
in this connection I mean to include all those hundreds of thousands who
have fundamentally the same longing, though in the individual cases they
cannot find adequate words to describe the vision that hovers before
their eyes. It is a characteristic feature of all great reforms that in
the beginning there is only one single protagonist to come forward on
behalf of several millions of people. The final goal of a great
reformation has often been the object of profound longing on the parts
of hundreds of thousands for many centuries before, until finally one
among them comes forward as a herald to announce the will of that
multitude and become the standard-bearer of the old yearning, which he
now leads to a realization in a new idea.

The fact that millions of our people yearn at heart for a radical change
in our present conditions is proved by the profound discontent which
exists among them. This feeling is manifested in a thousand ways. Some
express it in a form of discouragement and despair. Others show it in
resentment and anger and indignation. Among some the profound discontent
calls forth an attitude of indifference, while it urges others to
violent manifestations of wrath. Another indication of this feeling may
be seen on the one hand in the attitude of those who abstain from voting
at elections and, on the other, in the large numbers of those who side
with the fanatical extremists of the left wing.

To these latter people our young movement had to appeal first of all. It
was not meant to be an organization for contented and satisfied people,
but was meant to gather in all those who were suffering from profound
anxiety and could find no peace, those who were unhappy and
discontented. It was not meant to float on the surface of the nation but
rather to push its roots deep among the masses.

Looked at from the purely political point of view, the situation in 1918
was as follows: A nation had been torn into two parts. One part, which
was by far the smaller of the two, contained the intellectual classes of
the nation from which all those employed in physical labour were
excluded. On the surface these intellectual classes appeared to be
national-minded, but that word meant nothing else to them except a very
vague and feeble concept of the duty to defend what they called the
interests of the State, which in turn seemed identical with those of the
dynastic regime. This class tried to defend its ideas and reach its aims
by carrying on the fight with the aid of intellectual weapons, which
could be used only here and there and which had only a superficial
effect against the brutal measures employed by the adversaries, in the
face of which the intellectual weapons were of their very nature bound
to fail. With one violent blow the class which had hitherto governed was
now struck down. It trembled with fear and accepted every humiliation
imposed on it by the merciless victor.

Over against this class stood the broad masses of manual labourers who
were organized in movements with a more or less radically Marxist
tendency. These organized masses were firmly determined to break any
kind of intellectual resistance by the use of brute force. They had no
nationalist tendencies whatsoever and deliberately repudiated the idea
of advancing the interests of the nation as such. On the contrary, they
promoted the interests of the foreign oppressor. Numerically this class
embraced the majority of the population and, what is more important,
included all those elements of the nation without whose collaboration a
national resurgence was not only a practical impossibility but was even
inconceivable.

For already in 1918 one thing had to be clearly recognized; namely, that
no resurgence of the German nation could take place until we had first
restored our national strength to face the outside world. For this
purpose arms are not the preliminary necessity, though our bourgeois
'statesmen' always blathered about it being so; what was wanted was
will-power. At one time the German people had more than sufficient
military armament. And yet they were not able to defend their liberty
because they lacked those energies which spring from the instinct of
national self-preservation and the will to hold on to one's own. The
best armament is only dead and worthless material as long as the spirit
is wanting which makes men willing and determined to avail themselves of
such weapons. Germany was rendered defenceless not because she lacked
arms, but because she lacked the will to keep her arms for the
maintenance of her people.

To-day our Left-wing politicians in particular are constantly insisting
that their craven-hearted and obsequious foreign policy necessarily
results from the disarmament of Germany, whereas the truth is that this
is the policy of traitors. To all that kind of talk the answer ought to
be: No, the contrary is the truth. Your action in delivering up the arms
was dictated by your anti-national and criminal policy of abandoning the
interests of the nation. And now you try to make people believe that
your miserable whining is fundamentally due to the fact that you have no
arms. Just like everything else in your conduct, this is a lie and a
falsification of the true reason.

But the politicians of the Right deserve exactly the same reproach. It
was through their miserable cowardice that those ruffians of Jews who
came into power in 1918 were able to rob the nation of its arms. The
conservative politicians have neither right nor reason on their side
when they appeal to disarmament as the cause which compelled them to
adopt a policy of prudence (that is to say, cowardice). Here, again, the
contrary is the truth. Disarmament is the result of their lack of
spirit.

Therefore the problem of restoring Germany's power is not a question of
how can we manufacture arms but rather a question of how we can produce
that spirit which enables a people to bear arms. Once this spirit
prevails among a people then it will find a thousand ways, each of which
leads to the necessary armament. But a coward will not fire even a
single shot when attacked though he may be armed with ten pistols. For
him they are of less value than a blackthorn in the hands of a man of
courage.

The problem of re-establishing the political power of our nation is
first of all a problem of restoring the instinct of national
self-preservation for if no other reason than that every preparatory
step in foreign policy and every foreign judgment on the worth of a
State has been proved by experience to be grounded not on the material
size of the armament such a State may possess but rather on the moral
capacity for resistance which such a State has or is believed to have.
The question whether or not a nation be desirable as an ally is not so
much determined by the inert mass of arms which it has at hand but by
the obvious presence of a sturdy will to national self-preservation and
a heroic courage which will fight through to the last breath. For an
alliance is not made between arms but between men.

The British nation will therefore be considered as the most valuable
ally in the world as long as it can be counted upon to show that
brutality and tenacity in its government, as well as in the spirit of
the broad masses, which enables it to carry through to victory any
struggle that it once enters upon, no matter how long such a struggle
may last, or however great the sacrifice that may be necessary or
whatever the means that have to be employed; and all this even though
the actual military equipment at hand may be utterly inadequate when
compared with that of other nations.

Once it is understood that the restoration of Germany is a question of
reawakening the will to political self-preservation we shall see quite
clearly that it will not be enough to win over those elements that are
already national-minded but that the deliberately anti-national masses
must be converted to believe in the national ideals.

A young movement that aims at re-establishing a German State with full
sovereign powers will therefore have to make the task of winning over
the broad masses a special objective of its plan of campaign. Our
so-called 'national bourgeoisie' are so lamentably supine, generally
speaking, and their national spirit appears so feckless, that we may
feel sure they will offer no serious resistance against a vigorous
national foreign--or domestic policy. Even though the narrow-minded
German bourgeoisie should keep up a passive resistance when the hour of
deliverance is at hand, as they did in Bismarck's time, we shall never
have to fear any active resistance on their part, because of their
recognized proverbial cowardice.

It is quite different with the masses of our population, who are imbued
with ideas of internationalism. Through the primitive roughness of their
natures they are disposed to accept the preaching of violence, while at
the same time their Jewish leaders are more brutal and ruthless. They
will crush any attempt at a German revival, just as they smashed the
German Army by striking at it from the rear. Above all, these organized
masses will use their numerical majority in this Parliamentarian State
not only to hinder any national foreign policy, but also to prevent
Germany from restoring her political power and therewith her prestige
abroad. Thus she becomes excluded from the ranks of desirable allies.
For it is not we ourselves alone who are aware of the handicap that
results from the existence of fifteen million Marxists, democrats,
pacifists and followers of the Centre, in our midst, but foreign nations
also recognize this internal burden which we have to bear and take it
into their calculations when estimating the value of a possible alliance
with us. Nobody would wish to form an alliance with a State where the
active portion of the population is at least passively opposed to any
resolute foreign policy.

The situation is made still worse by reason of the fact that the leaders
of those parties which were responsible for the national betrayal are
ready to oppose any and every attempt at a revival, simply because they
want to retain the positions they now hold. According to the laws that
govern human history it is inconceivable that the German people could
resume the place they formerly held without retaliating on those who
were both cause and occasion of the collapse that involved the ruin of
our State. Before the judgment seat of posterity November 1918 will not
be regarded as a simple rebellion but as high treason against the
country.

Therefore it is not possible to think of re-establishing German
sovereignty and political independence without at the same time
reconstructing a united front within the nation, by a peaceful
conversion of the popular will.

Looked at from the standpoint of practical ways and means, it seems
absurd to think of liberating Germany from foreign bondage as long as
the masses of the people are not willing to support such an ideal of
freedom. After carefully considering this problem from the purely
military point of view, everybody, and in particular every officer, will
agree that a war cannot be waged against an outside enemy by battalions
of students; but that, together with the brains of the nation, the
physical strength of the nation is also necessary. Furthermore it must
be remembered that the nation would be robbed of its irreplaceable
assets by a national defence in which only the intellectual circles, as
they are called, were engaged. The young German intellectuals who joined
the volunteer regiments and fell on the battlefields of Flanders in the
autumn of 1914 were bitterly missed later on. They were the dearest
treasure which the nation possessed and their loss could not be made
good in the course of the war. And it is not only the struggle itself
which could not be waged if the working masses of the nation did not
join the storm battalions, but the necessary technical preparations
could not be made without a unified will and a common front within the
nation itself. Our nation which has to exist disarmed, under the
thousand eyes appointed by the Versailles Peace Treaty, cannot make any
technical preparations for the recovery of its freedom and human
independence until the whole army of spies employed within the country
is cut down to those few whose inborn baseness would lead them to betray
anything and everything for the proverbial thirty pieces of silver. But
we can deal with such people. The millions, however, who are opposed to
every kind of national revival simply because of their political
opinions, constitute an insurmountable obstacle. At least the obstacle
will remain insurmountable as long as the cause of their opposition,
which is international Marxism, is not overcome and its teachings
banished from both their hearts and heads.

From whatever point of view we may examine the possibility of recovering
our independence as a State and a people, whether we consider the
problem from the standpoint of technical rearmament or from that of the
actual struggle itself, the necessary pre-requisite always remains the
same. This pre-requisite is that the broad masses of the people must
first be won over to accept the principle of our national independence.

If we do not regain our external freedom every step forward in domestic
reform will at best be an augmentation of our productive powers for the
benefit of those nations that look upon us as a colony to be exploited.
The surplus produced by any so-called improvement would only go into the
hands of our international controllers and any social betterment would
at best increase the product of our labour in favour of those people. No
cultural progress can be made by the German nation, because such
progress is too much bound up with the political independence and
dignity of a people.

Therefore, as we can find a satisfactory solution for the problem of
Germany's future only by winning over the broad masses of our people for
the support of the national idea, this work of education must be
considered the highest and most important task to be accomplished by a
movement which does not strive merely to satisfy the needs of the moment
but considers itself bound to examine in the light of future results
everything it decides to do or refrain from doing.

As early as 1919 we were convinced that the nationalization of the
masses would have to constitute the first and paramount aim of the new
movement. From the tactical standpoint, this decision laid a certain
number of obligations on our shoulders.

(1) No social sacrifice could be considered too great in this effort to
win over the masses for the national revival.

In the field of national economics, whatever concessions are granted
to-day to the employees are negligible when compared with the benefit to
be reaped by the whole nation if such concessions contribute to bring
back the masses of the people once more to the bosom of their own
nation. Nothing but meanness and shortsightedness, which are
characteristics that unfortunately are only too prevalent among our
employers, could prevent people from recognizing that in the long run no
economic improvement and therefore no rise in profits are possible
unless internal solidarity be restored among the bulk of the people who
make up our nation.

If the German trades unions had defended the interests of the
working-classes uncompromisingly during the War; if even during the War
they had used the weapon of the strike to force the industrialists--who
were greedy for higher dividends--to grant the demands of the workers
for whom the unions acted; if at the same time they had stood up as good
Germans for the defence of the nation as stoutly as for their own
claims, and if they had given to their country what was their country's
due--then the War would never have been lost. How ludicrously
insignificant would all, and even the greatest, economic concession have
been in face of the tremendous importance of such a victory.

For a movement which would restore the German worker to the German
people it is therefore absolutely necessary to understand clearly that
economic sacrifices must be considered light in such cases, provided of
course that they do not go the length of endangering the independence
and stability of the national economic system.

(2) The education of the masses along national lines can be carried out
only indirectly, by improving their social conditions; for only by such
a process can the economic conditions be created which enable everybody
to share in the cultural life of the nation.

(3) The nationalization of the broad masses can never be achieved by
half-measures--that is to say, by feebly insisting on what is called the
objective side of the question--but only by a ruthless and devoted
insistence on the one aim which must be achieved. This means that a
people cannot be made 'national' according to the signification attached
to that word by our bourgeois class to-day--that is to say, nationalism
with many reservations--but national in the vehement and extreme sense.
Poison can be overcome only by a counter-poison, and only the supine
bourgeois mind could think that the Kingdom of Heaven can be attained by
a compromise.

The broad masses of a nation are not made up of professors and
diplomats. Since these masses have only a poor acquaintance with
abstract ideas, their reactions lie more in the domain of the feelings,
where the roots of their positive as well as their negative attitudes
are implanted. They are susceptible only to a manifestation of strength
which comes definitely either from the positive or negative side, but
they are never susceptible to any half-hearted attitude that wavers
between one pole and the other. The emotional grounds of their attitude
furnish the reason for their extraordinary stability. It is always more
difficult to fight successfully against Faith than against knowledge.
Love is less subject to change than respect. Hatred is more lasting than
mere aversion. And the driving force which has brought about the most
tremendous revolutions on this earth has never been a body of scientific
teaching which has gained power over the masses, but always a devotion
which has inspired them, and often a kind of hysteria which has urged
them to action.

Whoever wishes to win over the masses must know the key that will open
the door to their hearts. It is not objectivity, which is a feckless
attitude, but a determined will, backed up by force, when necessary.

(4) The soul of the masses can be won only if those who lead the
movement for that purpose are determined not merely to carry through the
positive struggle for their own aims but are also determined to destroy
the enemy that opposes them.

When they see an uncompromising onslaught against an adversary the
people have at all times taken this as a proof that right is on the side
of the active aggressor; but if the aggressor should go only half-way
and fail to push home his success by driving his opponent entirely from
the scene of action, the people will look upon this as a sign that the
aggressor is uncertain of the justice of his own cause and his half-way
policy may even be an acknowledgment that his cause is unjust.

The masses are but a part of Nature herself. Their feeling is such that
they cannot understand mutual hand-shakings between men who are declared
enemies. Their wish is to see the stronger side win and the weaker wiped
out or subjected unconditionally to the will of the stronger.

The nationalization of the masses can be successfully achieved only if,
in the positive struggle to win the soul of the people, those who spread
the international poison among them are exterminated.

(5) All the great problems of our time are problems of the moment and
are only the results of certain definite causes. And among all those
there is only one that has a profoundly causal significance. This is the
problem of preserving the pure racial stock among the people. Human
vigour or decline depends on the blood. Nations that are not aware of
the importance of their racial stock, or which neglect to preserve it,
are like men who would try to educate the pug-dog to do the work of the
greyhound, not understanding that neither the speed of the greyhound nor
the imitative faculties of the poodle are inborn qualities which cannot
be drilled into the one or the other by any form of training. A people
that fails to preserve the purity of its racial blood thereby destroys
the unity of the soul of the nation in all its manifestations. A
disintegrated national character is the inevitable consequence of a
process of disintegration in the blood. And the change which takes place
in the spiritual and creative faculties of a people is only an effect of
the change that has modified its racial substance.

If we are to free the German people from all those failings and ways of
acting which do not spring from their original character, we must first
get rid of those foreign germs in the national body which are the cause
of its failings and false ways.

The German nation will never revive unless the racial problem is taken
into account and dealt with. The racial problem furnishes the key not
only to the understanding of human history but also to the understanding
of every kind of human culture.

(6) By incorporating in the national community the masses of our people
who are now in the international camp we do not thereby mean to renounce
the principle that the interests of the various trades and professions
must be safeguarded. Divergent interests in the various branches of
labour and in the trades and professions are not the same as a division
between the various classes, but rather a feature inherent in the
economic situation. Vocational grouping does not clash in the least with
the idea of a national community, for this means national unity in
regard to all those problems that affect the life of the nation as such.

To incorporate in the national community, or simply the State, a stratum
of the people which has now formed a social class the standing of the
higher classes must not be lowered but that of the lower classes must be
raised. The class which carries through this process is never the higher
class but rather the lower one which is fighting for equality of rights.
The bourgeoisie of to-day was not incorporated in the State through
measures enacted by the feudal nobility but only through its own energy
and a leadership that had sprung from its own ranks.

The German worker cannot be raised from his present standing and
incorporated in the German folk-community by means of goody-goody
meetings where people talk about the brotherhood of the people, but
rather by a systematic improvement in the social and cultural life of
the worker until the yawning abyss between him and the other classes can
be filled in. A movement which has this for its aim must try to recruit
its followers mainly from the ranks of the working class. It must
include members of the intellectual classes only in so far as such
members have rightly understood and accepted without reserve the ideal
towards which the movement is striving. This process of transformation
and reunion cannot be completed within ten or twenty years. It will take
several generations, as the history of such movements has shown.

The most difficult obstacle to the reunion of our contemporary worker in
the national folk-community does not consist so much in the fact that he
fights for the interests of his fellow-workers, but rather in the
international ideas with which he is imbued and which are of their
nature at variance with the ideas of nationhood and fatherland. This
hostile attitude to nation and fatherland has been inculcated by the
leaders of the working class. If they were inspired by the principle of
devotion to the nation in all that concerns its political and social
welfare, the trades unions would make those millions of workers most
valuable members of the national community, without thereby affecting
their own constant struggle for their economic demands.

A movement which sincerely endeavours to bring the German worker back
into his folk-community, and rescue him from the folly of
internationalism, must wage a vigorous campaign against certain notions
that are prevalent among the industrialists. One of these notions is
that according to the concept of the folk-community, the employee is
obliged to surrender all his economic rights to the employer and,
further, that the workers would come into conflict with the
folk-community if they should attempt to defend their own just and vital
interests. Those who try to propagate such a notion are deliberate
liars. The idea of a folk-community does not impose any obligations on
the one side that are not imposed on the other.

A worker certainly does something which is contrary to the spirit of
folk-community if he acts entirely on his own initiative and puts
forward exaggerated demands without taking the common good into
consideration or the maintenance of the national economic structure. But
an industrialist also acts against the spirit of the folk-community if
he adopts inhuman methods of exploitation and misuses the working forces
of the nation to make millions unjustly for himself from the sweat of
the workers. He has no right to call himself 'national' and no right to
talk of a folk-community, for he is only an unscrupulous egoist who sows
the seeds of social discontent and provokes a spirit of conflict which
sooner or later must be injurious to the interests of the country.

The reservoir from which the young movement has to draw its members will
first of all be the working masses. Those masses must be delivered from
the clutches of the international mania. Their social distress must be
eliminated. They must be raised above their present cultural level,
which is deplorable, and transformed into a resolute and valuable factor
in the folk-community, inspired by national ideas and national
sentiment.

If among those intellectual circles that are nationalist in their
outlook men can be found who genuinely love the people and look forward
eagerly to the future of Germany, and at the same time have a sound
grasp of the importance of a struggle whose aim is to win over the soul
of the masses, such men are cordially welcomed in the ranks of our
movement, because they can serve as a valuable intellectual force in the
work that has to be done. But this movement can never aim at recruiting
its membership from the unthinking herd of bourgeois voters. If it did
so the movement would be burdened with a mass of people whose whole
mentality would only help to paralyse the effort of our campaign to win
the mass of the people. In theory it may be very fine to say that the
broad masses ought to be influenced by a combined leadership of the
upper and lower social strata within the framework of the one movement;
but, notwithstanding all this, the fact remains that though it may be
possible to exercise a psychological influence on the bourgeois classes
and to arouse some enthusiasm or even awaken some understanding among
them by our public demonstrations, their traditional characteristics
cannot be changed. In other words, we could not eliminate from the
bourgeois classes the inefficiency and supineness which are part of a
tradition that has developed through centuries. The difference between
the cultural levels of the two groups and between their respective
attitudes towards social-economic questions is still so great that it
would turn out a hindrance to the movement the moment the first
enthusiasm aroused by our demonstrations calmed down.

Finally, it is not part of our programme to transform the nationalist
camp itself, but rather to win over those who are anti-national in their
outlook. It is from this viewpoint that the strategy of the whole
movement must finally be decided.

(7) This one-sided but accordingly clear and definite attitude must be
manifested in the propaganda of the movement; and, on the other hand,
this is absolutely necessary to make the propaganda itself effective.

If propaganda is to be of service to the movement it must be addressed
to one side alone; for if it should vary the direction of its appeal it
will not be understood in the one camp or may be rejected by the other,
as merely insisting on obvious and uninteresting truisms; for the
intellectual training of the two camps that come into question here has
been very different.

Even the manner in which something is presented and the tone in which
particular details are emphasized cannot have the same effect in those
two strata that belong respectively to the opposite extremes of the
social structure. If the propaganda should refrain from using primitive
forms of expression it will not appeal to the sentiments of the masses.
If, on the other hand, it conforms to the crude sentiments of the masses
in its words and gestures the intellectual circles will be averse to it
because of its roughness and vulgarity. Among a hundred men who call
themselves orators there are scarcely ten who are capable of speaking
with effect before an audience of street-sweepers, locksmiths and
navvies, etc., to-day and expound the same subject with equal effect
to-morrow before an audience of university professors and students.
Among a thousand public speakers there may be only one who can speak
before a composite audience of locksmiths and professors in the same
hall in such a way that his statements can be fully comprehended by each
group while at the same time he effectively influences both and awakens
enthusiasm, on the one side as well as on the other, to hearty applause.
But it must be remembered that in most cases even the most beautiful
idea embodied in a sublime theory can be brought home to the public only
through the medium of smaller minds. The thing that matters here is not
the vision of the man of genius who created the great idea but rather
the success which his apostles achieve in shaping the expression of this
idea so as to bring it home to the minds of the masses.

Social-Democracy and the whole Marxist movement were particularly
qualified to attract the great masses of the nation, because of the
uniformity of the public to which they addressed their appeal. The more
limited and narrow their ideas and arguments, the easier it was for the
masses to grasp and assimilate them; for those ideas and arguments were
well adapted to a low level of intelligence.

These considerations led the new movement to adopt a clear and simple
line of policy, which was as follows:

In its message as well as in its forms of expression the propaganda must
be kept on a level with the intelligence of the masses, and its value
must be measured only by the actual success it achieves.

At a public meeting where the great masses are gathered together the
best speaker is not he whose way of approaching a subject is most akin
to the spirit of those intellectuals who may happen to be present, but
the speaker who knows how to win the hearts of the masses.

An educated man who is present and who finds fault with an address
because he considers it to be on an intellectual plane that is too low,
though he himself has witnessed its effect on the lower intellectual
groups whose adherence has to be won, only shows himself completely
incapable of rightly judging the situation and therewith proves that he
can be of no use in the new movement. Only intellectuals can be of use
to a movement who understand its mission and its aims so well that they
have learned to judge our methods of propaganda exclusively by the
success obtained and never by the impression which those methods made on
the intellectuals themselves. For our propaganda is not meant to serve
as an entertainment for those people who already have a nationalist
outlook, but its purpose is to win the adhesion of those who have
hitherto been hostile to national ideas and who are nevertheless of our
own blood and race.

In general, those considerations of which I have given a brief summary
in the chapter on 'War Propaganda' became the guiding rules and
principles which determined the kind of propaganda we were to adopt in
our campaign and the manner in which we were to put it into practice.
The success that has been obtained proves that our decision was right.

(8) The ends which any political reform movement sets out to attain can
never be reached by trying to educate the public or influence those in
power but only by getting political power into its hands. Every idea
that is meant to move the world has not only the right but also the
obligation of securing control of those means which will enable the idea
to be carried into effect. In this world success is the only rule of
judgment whereby we can decide whether such an undertaking was right or
wrong. And by the word 'success' in this connection I do not mean such a
success as the mere conquest of power in 1918 but the successful issue
whereby the common interests of the nation have been served. A COUP
D'ETAT cannot be considered successful if, as many empty-headed
government lawyers in Germany now believe, the revolutionaries succeeded
in getting control of the State into their hands but only if, in
comparison with the state of affairs under the old regime, the lot of
the nation has been improved when the aims and intentions on which the
revolution was based have been put into practice. This certainly does
not apply to the German Revolution, as that movement was called, which
brought a gang of bandits into power in the autumn of 1918.

But if the conquest of political power be a requisite preliminary for
the practical realization of the ideals that inspire a reform movement,
then any movement which aims at reform must, from the very first day of
its activity, be considered by its leaders as a movement of the masses
and not as a literary tea club or an association of philistines who meet
to play ninepins.

(9) The nature and internal organization of the new movement make it
anti-parliamentarian. That is to say, it rejects in general and in its
own structure all those principles according to which decisions are to
be taken on the vote of the majority and according to which the leader
is only the executor of the will and opinion of others. The movement
lays down the principle that, in the smallest as well as in the greatest
problems, one person must have absolute authority and bear all
responsibility.

In our movement the practical consequences of this principle are the
following:

The president of a large group is appointed by the head of the group
immediately above his in authority. He is then the responsible leader of
his group. All the committees are subject to his authority and not he to
theirs. There is no such thing as committees that vote but only
committees that work. This work is allotted by the responsible leader,
who is the president of the group. The same principle applies to the
higher organizations--the Bezirk (district), the KREIS (urban circuit)
and the GAU (the region). In each case the president is appointed from
above and is invested with full authority and executive power. Only the
leader of the whole party is elected at the general meeting of the
members. But he is the sole leader of the movement. All the committees
are responsible to him, but he is not responsible to the committees. His
decision is final, but he bears the whole responsibility of it. The
members of the movement are entitled to call him to account by means of
a new election, or to remove him from office if he has violated the
principles of the movement or has not served its interests adequately.
He is then replaced by a more capable man. who is invested with the same
authority and obliged to bear the same responsibility.

One of the highest duties of the movement is to make this principle
imperative not only within its own ranks but also for the whole State.

The man who becomes leader is invested with the highest and unlimited
authority, but he also has to bear the last and gravest responsibility.

The man who has not the courage to shoulder responsibility for his
actions is not fitted to be a leader. Only a man of heroic mould can
have the vocation for such a task.

Human progress and human cultures are not founded by the multitude. They
are exclusively the work of personal genius and personal efficiency.

Because of this principle, our movement must necessarily be
anti-parliamentarian, and if it takes part in the parliamentary
institution it is only for the purpose of destroying this institution
from within; in other words, we wish to do away with an institution
which we must look upon as one of the gravest symptoms of human decline.

(10) The movement steadfastly refuses to take up any stand in regard to
those problems which are either outside of its sphere of political work
or seem to have no fundamental importance for us. It does not aim at
bringing about a religious reformation, but rather a political
reorganization of our people. It looks upon the two religious
denominations as equally valuable mainstays for the existence of our
people, and therefore it makes war on all those parties which would
degrade this foundation, on which the religious and moral stability of
our people is based, to an instrument in the service of party interests.

Finally, the movement does not aim at establishing any one form of State
or trying to destroy another, but rather to make those fundamental
principles prevail without which no republic and no monarchy can exist
for any length of time. The movement does not consider its mission to be
the establishment of a monarchy or the preservation of the Republic but
rather to create a German State.

The problem concerning the outer form of this State, that is to say, its
final shape, is not of fundamental importance. It is a problem which
must be solved in the light of what seems practical and opportune at the
moment.

Once a nation has understood and appreciated the great problems that
affect its inner existence, the question of outer formalities will never
lead to any internal conflict.

(11) The problem of the inner organization of the movement is not one of
principle but of expediency.

The best kind of organization is not that which places a large
intermediary apparatus between the leadership of the movement and the
individual followers but rather that which works successfully with the
smallest possible intermediary apparatus. For it is the task of such an
organization to transmit a certain idea which originated in the brain of
one individual to a multitude of people and to supervise the manner in
which this idea is being put into practice.

Therefore, from any and every viewpoint, the organization is only a
necessary evil. At best it is only a means of reaching certain ends. The
worst happens when it becomes an end in itself.

Since the world produces more mechanical than intelligent beings, it
will always be easier to develop the form of an organization than its
substance; that is to say, the ideas which it is meant to serve.

The march of any idea which strives towards practical fulfilment, and in
particular those ideas which are of a reformatory character, may be
roughly sketched as follows:

A creative idea takes shape in the mind of somebody who thereupon feels
himself called upon to transmit this idea to the world. He propounds his
faith before others and thereby gradually wins a certain number of
followers. This direct and personal way of promulgating one's ideas
among one's contemporaries is the most natural and the most ideal. But
as the movement develops and secures a large number of followers it
gradually becomes impossible for the original founder of the doctrine on
which the movement is based to carry on his propaganda personally among
his innumerable followers and at the same time guide the course of the
movement.

According as the community of followers increases, direct communication
between the head and the individual followers becomes impossible. This
intercourse must then take place through an intermediary apparatus
introduced into the framework of the movement. Thus ideal conditions of
inter-communication cease, and organization has to be introduced as a
necessary evil. Small subsidiary groups come into existence, as in the
political movement, for example, where the local groups represent the
germ-cells out of which the organization develops later on.

But such sub-divisions must not be introduced into the movement until
the authority of the spiritual founder and of the school he has created
are accepted without reservation. Otherwise the movement would run the
risk of becoming split up by divergent doctrines. In this connection too
much emphasis cannot be laid on the importance of having one geographic
centre as the chief seat of the movement. Only the existence of such a
seat or centre, around which a magic charm such as that of Mecca or Rome
is woven, can supply a movement with that permanent driving force which
has its sources in the internal unity of the movement and the
recognition of one head as representing this unity.

When the first germinal cells of the organization are being formed care
must always be taken to insist on the importance of the place where the
idea originated. The creative, moral and practical greatness of the
place whence the movement went forth and from which it is governed must
be exalted to a supreme symbol, and this must be honoured all the more
according as the original cells of the movement become so numerous that
they have to be regrouped into larger units in the structure of the
organization.

When the number of individual followers became so large that direct
personal contact with the head of the movement was out of the question,
then we had to form those first local groups. As those groups multiplied
to an extraordinary number it was necessary to establish higher cadres
into which the local groups were distributed. Examples of such cadres in
the political organization are those of the region (GAU) and the
district (BEZIRK).

Though it may be easy enough to maintain the original central authority
over the lowest groups, it is much more difficult to do so in relation
to the higher units of organization which have now developed. And yet we
must succeed in doing this, for this is an indispensable condition if
the unity of the movement is to be guaranteed and the idea of it carried
into effect.

Finally, when those larger intermediary organizations have to be
combined in new and still higher units it becomes increasingly difficult
to maintain over them the absolute supremacy of the original seat of the
movement and the school attached to it.

Consequently the mechanical forms of an organization must only be
introduced if and in so far as the spiritual authority and the ideals of
the central seat of the organization are shown to be firmly established.
In the political sphere it may often happen that this supremacy can be
maintained only when the movement has taken over supreme political
control of the nation.

Having taken all these considerations into account, the following
principles were laid down for the inner structure of the movement:

(a) That at the beginning all activity should be concentrated in one
town: namely, Munich. That a band of absolutely reliable followers
should be trained and a school founded which would subsequently help to
propagate the idea of the movement. That the prestige of the movement,
for the sake of its subsequent extension, should first be established
here through gaining as many successful and visible results as possible
in this one place. To secure name and fame for the movement and its
leader it was necessary, not only to give in this one town a striking
example to shatter the belief that the Marxist doctrine was invincible
but also to show that a counter-doctrine was possible.

(b) That local groups should not be established before the supremacy of
the central authority in Munich was definitely established and
acknowledged.

(c) That District, Regional, and Provincial groups should be formed only
after the need for them has become evident and only after the supremacy
of the central authority has been satisfactorily guaranteed.

Further, that the creation of subordinate organisms must depend on
whether or not those persons can be found who are qualified to undertake
the leadership of them.

Here there were only two solutions:

(a) That the movement should acquire the necessary funds to attract and
train intelligent people who would be capable of becoming leaders. The
personnel thus obtained could then be systematically employed according
as the tactical situation and the necessity for efficiency demanded.

This solution was the easier and the more expedite. But it demanded
large financial resources; for this group of leaders could work in the
movement only if they could be paid a salary.

(b) Because the movement is not in a position to employ paid officials
it must begin by depending on honorary helpers. Naturally this solution
is slower and more difficult.

It means that the leaders of the movement have to allow vast territories
to lie fallow unless in these respective districts one of the members
comes forward who is capable and willing to place himself at the service
of the central authority for the purpose of organizing and directing the
movement in the region concerned.

It may happen that in extensive regions no such leader can be found, but
that at the same time in other regions two or three or even more persons
appear whose capabilities are almost on a level. The difficulty which
this situation involves is very great and can be overcome only with the
passing of the years.

For the establishment of any branch of the organization the decisive
condition must always be that a person can be found who is capable of
fulfilling the functions of a leader.

Just as the army and all its various units of organization are useless
if there are no officers, so any political organization is worthless if
it has not the right kind of leaders.

If an inspiring personality who has the gift of leadership cannot be
found for the organization and direction of a local group it is better
for the movement to refrain from establishing such a group than to run
the risk of failure after the group has been founded.

The will to be a leader is not a sufficient qualification for
leadership. For the leader must have the other necessary qualities.
Among these qualities will-power and energy must be considered as more
serviceable than the intellect of a genius. The most valuable
association of qualities is to be found in a combination of talent,
determination and perseverance.

(12) The future of a movement is determined by the devotion, and even
intolerance, with which its members fight for their cause. They must
feel convinced that their cause alone is just, and they must carry it
through to success, as against other similar organizations in the same
field.

It is quite erroneous to believe that the strength of a movement must
increase if it be combined with other movements of a similar kind. Any
expansion resulting from such a combination will of course mean an
increase in external development, which superficial observers might
consider as also an increase of power; but in reality the movement thus
admits outside elements which will subsequently weaken its
constitutional vigour.

Though it may be said that one movement is identical in character with
another, in reality no such identity exists. If it did exist then
practically there would not be two movements but only one. And whatever
the difference may be, even if it consist only of the measure in which
the capabilities of the one set of leaders differ from those of the
other, there it is. It is against the natural law of all development to
couple dissimilar organisms, or the law is that the stronger must
overcome the weaker and, through the struggle necessary for such a
conquest, increase the constitutional vigour and effective strength of
the victor.

By amalgamating political organizations that are approximately alike,
certain immediate advantages may be gained, but advantages thus gained
are bound in the long run to become the cause of internal weaknesses
which will make their appearance later on.

A movement can become great only if the unhampered development of its
internal strength be safeguarded and steadfastly augmented, until
victory over all its competitors be secured.

One may safely say that the strength of a movement and its right to
existence can be developed only as long as it remains true to the
principle that struggle is a necessary condition of its progress and
that its maximum strength will be reached only as soon as complete
victory has been won.

Therefore a movement must not strive to obtain successes that will be
only immediate and transitory, but it must show a spirit of
uncompromising perseverance in carrying through a long struggle which
will secure for it a long period of inner growth.

All those movements which owe their expansion to a so-called combination
of similar organisms, which means that their external strength is due to
a policy of compromise, are like plants whose growth is forced in a
hothouse. They shoot up externally but they lack that inner strength
which enables the natural plant to grow into a tree that will withstand
the storms of centuries.

The greatness of every powerful organization which embodies a creative
idea lies in the spirit of religious devotion and intolerance with which
it stands out against all others, because it has an ardent faith in its
own right. If an idea is right in itself and, furnished with the
fighting weapons I have mentioned, wages war on this earth, then it is
invincible and persecution will only add to its internal strength.

The greatness of Christianity did not arise from attempts to make
compromises with those philosophical opinions of the ancient world which
had some resemblance to its own doctrine, but in the unrelenting and
fanatical proclamation and defence of its own teaching.

The apparent advance that a movement makes by associating itself with
other movements will be easily reached and surpassed by the steady
increase of strength which a doctrine and its organization acquires if
it remains independent and fights its own cause alone.

(13) The movement ought to educate its adherents to the principle that
struggle must not be considered a necessary evil but as something to be
desired in itself. Therefore they must not be afraid of the hostility
which their adversaries manifest towards them but they must take it as a
necessary condition on which their whole right to existence is based.
They must not try to avoid being hated by those who are the enemies of
our people and our philosophy of life, but must welcome such hatred.
Lies and calumnies are part of the method which the enemy employs to
express his chagrin.

The man who is not opposed and vilified and slandered in the Jewish
Press is not a staunch German and not a true National Socialist. The
best rule whereby the sincerity of his convictions, his character and
strength of will, can be measured is the hostility which his name
arouses among the mortal enemies of our people.

The followers of the movement, and indeed the whole nation, must be
reminded again and again of the fact that, through the medium of his
newspapers, the Jew is always spreading falsehood and that if he tells
the truth on some occasions it is only for the purpose of masking some
greater deceit, which turns the apparent truth into a deliberate
falsehood. The Jew is the Great Master of Lies. Falsehood and duplicity
are the weapons with which he fights.

Every calumny and falsehood published by the Jews are tokens of honour
which can be worn by our comrades. He whom they decry most is nearest to
our hearts and he whom they mortally hate is our best friend.

If a comrade of ours opens a Jewish newspaper in the morning and does
not find himself vilified there, then he has spent yesterday to no
account. For if he had achieved something he would be persecuted,
slandered, derided and abused. Those who effectively combat this mortal
enemy of our people, who is at the same time the enemy of all Aryan
peoples and all culture, can only expect to arouse opposition on the
part of this race and become the object of its slanderous attacks.

When these truths become part of the flesh and blood, as it were, of our
members, then the movement will be impregnable and invincible.

(14) The movement must use all possible means to cultivate respect for
the individual personality. It must never forget that all human values
are based on personal values, and that every idea and achievement is the
fruit of the creative power of one man. We must never forget that
admiration for everything that is great is not only a tribute to one
creative personality but that all those who feel such admiration become
thereby united under one covenant.

Nothing can take the place of the individual, especially if the
individual embodies in himself not the mechanical element but the
element of cultural creativeness. No pupil can take the place of the
master in completing a great picture which he has left unfinished; and
just in the same way no substitute can take the place of the great poet
or thinker, or the great statesman or military general. For the source
of their power is in the realm of artistic creativeness. It can never be
mechanically acquired, because it is an innate product of divine grace.

The greatest revolutions and the greatest achievements of this world,
its greatest cultural works and the immortal creations of great
statesmen, are inseparably bound up with one name which stands as a
symbol for them in each respective case. The failure to pay tribute to
one of those great spirits signifies a neglect of that enormous source
of power which lies in the remembrance of all great men and women.

The Jew himself knows this best. He, whose great men have always been
great only in their efforts to destroy mankind and its civilization,
takes good care that they are worshipped as idols. But the Jew tries to
degrade the honour in which nations hold their great men and women. He
stigmatizes this honour as 'the cult of personality'.

As soon as a nation has so far lost its courage as to submit to this
impudent defamation on the part of the Jews it renounces the most
important source of its own inner strength. This inner force cannot
arise from a policy of pandering to the masses but only from the worship
of men of genius, whose lives have uplifted and ennobled the nation
itself.

When men's hearts are breaking and their souls are plunged into the
depths of despair, their great forebears turn their eyes towards them
from the dim shadows of the past--those forebears who knew how to
triumph over anxiety and affliction, mental servitude and physical
bondage--and extend their eternal hands in a gesture of encouragement to
despairing souls. Woe to the nation that is ashamed to clasp those
hands.

During the initial phase of our movement our greatest handicap was the
fact that none of us were known and our names meant nothing, a fact
which then seemed to some of us to make the chances of final success
problematical. Our most difficult task then was to make our members
firmly believe that there was a tremendous future in store for the
movement and to maintain this belief as a living faith; for at that time
only six, seven or eight persons came to hear one of our speakers.

Consider that only six or seven poor devils who were entirely unknown
came together to found a movement which should succeed in doing what the
great mass-parties had failed to do: namely, to reconstruct the German
REICH, even in greater power and glory than before. We should have been
very pleased if we were attacked or even ridiculed. But the most
depressing fact was that nobody paid any attention to us whatever. This
utter lack of interest in us caused me great mental pain at that time.

When I entered the circle of those men there was not yet any question of
a party or a movement. I have already described the impression which was
made on me when I first came into contact with that small organization.
Subsequently I had time, and also the occasion, to study the form of
this so-called party which at first had made such a woeful impression.
The picture was indeed quite depressing and discouraging. There was
nothing, absolutely nothing at all. There was only the name of a party.
And the committee consisted of all the party members. Somehow or other
it seemed just the kind of thing we were about to fight against--a
miniature parliament. The voting system was employed. When the great
parliament cried until they were hoarse--at least they shouted over
problems of importance--here this small circle engaged in interminable
discussions as to the form in which they might answer the letters which
they were delighted to have received.

Needless to say, the public knew nothing of all this. In Munich nobody
knew of the existence of such a party, not even by name, except our few
members and their small circle of acquaintances.

Every Wednesday what was called a committee meeting was held in one of
the cafe's, and a debate was arranged for one evening each week. In the
beginning all the members of the movement were also members of the
committee, therefore the same persons always turned up at both meetings.
The first step that had to be taken was to extend the narrow limits of
this small circle and get new members, but the principal necessity was
to utilize all the means at our command for the purpose of making the
movement known.

We chose the following methods: We decided to hold a monthly meeting to
which the public would be invited. Some of the invitations were
typewritten, and some were written by hand. For the first few meetings
we distributed them in the streets and delivered them personally at
certain houses. Each one canvassed among his own acquaintances and tried
to persuade some of them to attend our meetings. The result was
lamentable.

I still remember once how I personally delivered eighty of these
invitations and how we waited in the evening for the crowds to come.
After waiting in vain for a whole hour the chairman finally had to open
the meeting. Again there were only seven people present, the old
familiar seven.

We then changed our methods. We had the invitations written with a
typewriter in a Munich stationer's shop and then multigraphed them.

The result was that a few more people attended our next meeting. The
number increased gradually from eleven to thirteen to seventeen, to
twenty-three and finally to thirty-four. We collected some money within
our own circle, each poor devil giving a small contribution, and in that
way we raised sufficient funds to be able to advertise one of our
meetings in the MUNICH OBSERVER, which was still an independent paper.

This time we had an astonishing success. We had chosen the Munich
HOFBRA"U HAUS KELLER (which must not be confounded with the Munich
HOFBRA"U HAUS FESTSAAL) as our meeting-place. It was a small hall and
would accommodate scarcely more than 130 people. To me, however, the
hall seemed enormous, and we were all trembling lest this tremendous
edifice would remain partly empty on the night of the meeting.

At seven o'clock 111 persons were present, and the meeting was opened. A
Munich professor delivered the principal address, and I spoke after him.
That was my first appearance in the role of public orator. The whole
thing seemed a very daring adventure to Herr Harrer, who was then
chairman of the party. He was a very decent fellow; but he had an
A PRIORI conviction that, although I might have quite a number of good
qualities, I certainly did not have a talent for public speaking. Even
later he could not be persuaded to change his opinion. But he was
mistaken. Twenty minutes had been allotted to me for my speech on this
occasion, which might be looked upon as our first public meeting.

I talked for thirty minutes, and what I always had felt deep down in my
heart, without being able to put it to the test, was here proved to be
true: I could make a good speech. At the end of the thirty minutes it
was quite clear that all the people in the little hall had been
profoundly impressed. The enthusiasm aroused among them found its first
expression in the fact that my appeal to those present brought us
donations which amounted to three hundred marks. That was a great relief
for us. Our finances were at that time so meagre that we could not
afford to have our party prospectus printed, or even leaflets. Now we
possessed at least the nucleus of a fund from which we could pay the
most urgent and necessary expenses.

But the success of this first larger meeting was also important from
another point of view. I had already begun to introduce some young and
fresh members into the committee. During the long period of my military
service I had come to know a large number of good comrades whom I was
now able to persuade to join our party. All of them were energetic and
disciplined young men who, through their years of military service, had
been imbued with the principle that nothing is impossible and that where
there's a will there's a way.

The need for this fresh blood supply became evident to me after a few
weeks of collaboration with the new members. Herr Harrer, who was then
chairman of the party, was a journalist by profession, and as such he
was a man of general knowledge. But as leader of the party he had one
very serious handicap: he could not speak to the crowd. Though he did
his work conscientiously, it lacked the necessary driving force,
probably for the reason that he had no oratorical gifts whatsoever. Herr
Drexler, at that time chairman of the Munich local group, was a simple
working man. He, too, was not of any great importance as a speaker.
Moreover, he was not a soldier. He had never done military service, even
during the War. So that this man who was feeble and diffident by nature
had missed the only school which knows how to transform diffident and
weakly natures into real men. Therefore neither of those two men were of
the stuff that would have enabled them to stir up an ardent and
indomitable faith in the ultimate triumph of the movement and to brush
aside, with obstinate force and if necessary with brutal ruthlessness,
all obstacles that stood in the path of the new idea. Such a task could
be carried out only by men who had been trained, body and soul, in those
military virtues which make a man, so to speak, agile as a greyhound,
tough as leather, and hard as Krupp steel.

At that time I was still a soldier. Physically and mentally I had the
polish of six years of service, so that in the beginning this circle
must have looked on me as quite a stranger. In common with my army
comrades, I had forgotten such phrases as: "That will not go", or "That
is not possible", or "We ought not to take such a risk; it is too
dangerous".

The whole undertaking was of its very nature dangerous. At that time
there were many parts of Germany where it would have been absolutely
impossible openly to invite people to a national meeting that dared to
make a direct appeal to the masses. Those who attended such meetings
were usually dispersed and driven away with broken heads. It certainly
did not call for any great qualities to be able to do things in that
way. The largest so-called bourgeois mass meetings were accustomed to
dissolve, and those in attendance would run away like rabbits when
frightened by a dog as soon as a dozen communists appeared on the scene.
The Reds used to pay little attention to those bourgeois organizations
where only babblers talked. They recognized the inner triviality of such
associations much better than the members themselves and therefore felt
that they need not be afraid of them. On the contrary, however, they
were all the more determined to use every possible means of annihilating
once and for all any movement that appeared to them to be a danger to
their own interests. The most effective means which they always employed
in such cases were terror and brute force.

The Marxist leaders, whose business consisted in deceiving and
misleading the public, naturally hated most of all a movement whose
declared aim was to win over those masses which hitherto had been
exclusively at the service of international Marxism in the Jewish and
Stock Exchange parties. The title alone, 'German Labour party',
irritated them. It could easily be foreseen that at the first opportune
moment we should have to face the opposition of the Marxist despots, who
were still intoxicated with their triumph in 1918.

People in the small circles of our own movement at that time showed a
certain amount of anxiety at the prospect of such a conflict. They
wanted to refrain as much as possible from coming out into the open,
because they feared that they might be attacked and beaten. In their
minds they saw our first public meetings broken up and feared that the
movement might thus be ruined for ever. I found it difficult to defend
my own position, which was that the conflict should not be evaded but
that it should be faced openly and that we should be armed with those
weapons which are the only protection against brute force. Terror cannot
be overcome by the weapons of the mind but only by counter-terror. The
success of our first public meeting strengthened my own position. The
members felt encouraged to arrange for a second meeting, even on a
larger scale.

Some time in October 1919 the second larger meeting took place in the
EBERLBRA"U KELLER. The theme of our speeches was 'Brest-Litowsk and
Versailles'. There were four speakers. I talked for almost an hour, and
the success was even more striking than at our first meeting. The number
of people who attended had grown to more than 130. An attempt to disturb
the proceedings was immediately frustrated by my comrades. The would-be
disturbers were thrown down the stairs, bearing imprints of violence on
their heads.

A fortnight later another meeting took place in the same hall. The
number in attendance had now increased to more than 170, which meant
that the room was fairly well filled. I spoke again, and once more the
success obtained was greater than at the previous meeting.

Then I proposed that a larger hall should be found. After looking around
for some time we discovered one at the other end of the town, in the
'Deutschen REICH' in the Dachauer Strasse. The first meeting at this new
rendezvous had a smaller attendance than the previous meeting. There
were just less than 140 present. The members of the committee began to
be discouraged, and those who had always been sceptical were now
convinced that this falling-off in the attendance was due to the fact
that we were holding the meetings at too short intervals. There were
lively discussions, in which I upheld my own opinion that a city with
700,000 inhabitants ought to be able not only to stand one meeting every
fortnight but ten meetings every week. I held that we should not be
discouraged by one comparative setback, that the tactics we had chosen
were correct, and that sooner or later success would be ours if we only
continued with determined perseverance to push forward on our road. This
whole winter of 1919-20 was one continual struggle to strengthen
confidence in our ability to carry the movement through to success and
to intensify this confidence until it became a burning faith that could
move mountains.

Our next meeting in the small hall proved the truth of my contention.
Our audience had increased to more than 200. The publicity effect and
the financial success were splendid. I immediately urged that a further
meeting should be held. It took place in less than a fortnight, and
there were more than 270 people present. Two weeks later we invited our
followers and their friends, for the seventh time, to attend our
meeting. The same hall was scarcely large enough for the number that
came. They amounted to more than four hundred.

During this phase the young movement developed its inner form. Sometimes
we had more or less hefty discussions within our small circle. From
various sides--it was then just the same as it is to-day--objections
were made against the idea of calling the young movement a party. I have
always considered such criticism as a demonstration of practical
incapability and narrow-mindedness on the part of the critic. Those
objections have always been raised by men who could not differentiate
between external appearances and inner strength, but tried to judge the
movement by the high-sounding character of the name attached to it. To
this end they ransacked the vocabulary of our ancestors, with
unfortunate results.

At that time it was very difficult to make the people understand that
every movement is a party as long as it has not brought its ideals to
final triumph and thus achieved its purpose. It is a party even if it
give itself a thousand difterent names.

Any person who tries to carry into practice an original idea whose
realization would be for the benefit of his fellow men will first have
to look for disciples who are ready to fight for the ends he has in
view. And if these ends did not go beyond the destruction of the party
system and therewith put a stop to the process of disintegration, then
all those who come forward as protagonists and apostles of such an ideal
are a party in themselves as long as their final goal is reached. It is
only hair-splitting and playing with words when these antiquated
theorists, whose practical success is in reverse ratio to their wisdom,
presume to think they can change the character of a movement which is at
the same time a party, by merely changing its name.

On the contrary, it is entirely out of harmony with the spirit of the
nation to keep harping on that far-off and forgotten nomenclature which
belongs to the ancient Germanic times and does not awaken any distinct
association in our age. This habit of borrowing words from the dead past
tends to mislead the people into thinking that the external trappings of
its vocabulary are the important feature of a movement. It is really a
mischievous habit; but it is quite prevalent nowadays.

At that time, and subsequently, I had to warn followers repeatedly
against these wandering scholars who were peddling Germanic folk-lore
and who never accomplished anything positive or practical, except to
cultivate their own superabundant self-conceit. The new movement must
guard itself against an influx of people whose only recommendation is
their own statement that they have been fighting for these very same
ideals during the last thirty or forty years.

Now if somebody has fought for forty years to carry into effect what he
calls an idea, and if these alleged efforts not only show no positive
results but have not even been able to hinder the success of the
opposing party, then the story of those forty years of futile effort
furnishes sufficient proof for the incompetence of such a protagonist.
People of that kind are specially dangerous because they do not want to
participate in the movement as ordinary members. They talk rather of the
leading positions which would be the only fitting posts for them, in
view of their past work and also so that they might be enabled to carry
on that work further. But woe to a young movement if the conduct of it
should fall into the hands of such people. A business man who has been
in charge of a great firm for forty years and who has completely ruined
it through his mismanagement is not the kind of person one would
recommend for the founding of a new firm. And it is just the same with a
new national movement. Nobody of common sense would appoint to a leading
post in such a movement some Teutonic Methuselah who had been
ineffectively preaching some idea for a period of forty years, until
himself and his idea had entered the stage of senile decay.

Furthermore, only a very small percentage of such people join a new
movement with the intention of serving its end unselfishly and helping
in the spread of its principles. In most cases they come because they
think that, under the aegis of the new movement, it will be possible for
them to promulgate their old ideas to the misfortune of their new
listeners. Anyhow, nobody ever seems able to describe what exactly these
ideas are.

It is typical of such persons that they rant about ancient Teutonic
heroes of the dim and distant ages, stone axes, battle spears and
shields, whereas in reality they themselves are the woefullest poltroons
imaginable. For those very same people who brandish Teutonic tin swords
that have been fashioned carefully according to ancient models and wear
padded bear-skins, with the horns of oxen mounted over their bearded
faces, proclaim that all contemporary conflicts must be decided by the
weapons of the mind alone. And thus they skedaddle when the first
communist cudgel appears. Posterity will have little occasion to write a
new epic on these heroic gladiators.

I have seen too much of that kind of people not to feel a profound
contempt for their miserable play-acting. To the masses of the nation
they are just an object of ridicule; but the Jew finds it to his own
interest to treat these folk-lore comedians with respect and to prefer
them to real men who are fighting to establish a German State. And yet
these comedians are extremely proud of themselves. Notwithstanding their
complete fecklessness, which is an established fact, they pretend to
know everything better than other people; so much so that they make
themselves a veritable nuisance to all sincere and honest patriots, to
whom not only the heroism of the past is worthy of honour but who also
feel bound to leave examples of their own work for the inspiration of
the coming generation.

Among those people there were some whose conduct can be explained by
their innate stupidity and incompetence; but there are others who have a
definite ulterior purpose in view. Often it is difficult to distinguish
between the two classes. The impression which I often get, especially of
those so-called religious reformers whose creed is grounded on ancient
Germanic customs, is that they are the missionaries and prote'ge's of
those forces which do not wish to see a national revival taking place in
Germany. All their activities tend to turn the attention of the people
away from the necessity of fighting together in a common cause against
the common enemy, namely the Jew. Moreover, that kind of preaching
induces the people to use up their energies, not in fighting for the
common cause, but in absurd and ruinous religious controversies within
their own ranks. There are definite grounds that make it absolutely
necessary for the movement to be dominated by a strong central force
which is embodied in the authoritative leadership. In this way alone is
it possible to counteract the activity of such fatal elements. And that
is just the reason why these folk-lore Ahasueruses are vigorously
hostile to any movement whose members are firmly united under one leader
and one discipline. Those people of whom I have spoken hate such a
movement because it is capable of putting a stop to their mischief.

It was not without good reason that when we laid down a clearly defined
programme for the new movement we excluded the word VO"LKISCH from it.
The concept underlying the term VO"LKISCH cannot serve as the basis of a
movement, because it is too indefinite and general in its application.
Therefore, if somebody called himself VO"LKISCH such a designation could
not be taken as the hall-mark of some definite, party affiliation.

Because this concept is so indefinite from the practical viewpoint, it
gives rise to various interpretations and thus people can appeal to it
all the more easily as a sort of personal recommendation. Whenever such
a vague concept, which is subject to so many interpretations, is
admitted into a political movement it tends to break up the disciplined
solidarity of the fighting forces. No such solidarity can be maintained
if each individual member be allowed to define for himself what he
believes and what he is willing to do.

One feels it a disgrace when one notices the kind of people who float
about nowadays with the VO"LKISCH symbol stuck in their buttonholes, and
at the same time to notice how many people have various ideas of their
own as to the significance of that symbol. A well-known professor in
Bavaria, a famous combatant who fights only with the weapons of the mind
and who boasts of having marched against Berlin--by shouldering the
weapons of the mind, of course--believes that the word VO"LKISCH is
synonymous with 'monarchical'. But this learned authority has hitherto
neglected to explain how our German monarchs of the past can be
identified with what we generally mean by the word VO"LKISCH to-day. I am
afraid he will find himself at a loss if he is asked to give a precise
answer. For it would be very difficult indeed to imagine anything less
VO"LKISCH than most of those German monarchical States were. Had they
been otherwise they would not have disappeared; or if they were
VO"LKISCH, then the fact of their downfall may be taken as evidence that
the VO"LKISCH outlook on the world (WELTANSCHAUUNG) is a false outlook.

Everybody interprets this concept in his own way. But such multifarious
opinions cannot be adopted as the basis of a militant political
movement. I need not call attention to the absolute lack of worldly
wisdom, and especially the failure to understand the soul of the nation,
which is displayed by these Messianic Precursors of the Twentieth
Century. Sufficient attention has been called to those people by the
ridicule which the left-wing parties have bestowed on them. They allow
them to babble on and sneer at them.

I do not set much value on the friendship of people who do not succeed
in getting disliked by their enemies. Therefore, we considered the
friendship of such people as not only worthless but even dangerous to
our young movement. That was the principal reason why we first called
ourselves a PARTY. We hoped that by giving ourselves such a name we
might scare away a whole host of VO"LKISCH dreamers. And that was the
reason also why we named our Party, THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN LABOUR
PARTY.

The first term, Party, kept away all those dreamers who live in the past
and all the lovers of bombastic nomenclature, as well as those who went
around beating the big drum for the VO"LKISCH idea. The full name of the
Party kept away all those heroes whose weapon is the sword of the spirit
and all those whining poltroons who take refuge behind their so-called
'intelligence' as if it were a kind of shield.

It was only to be expected that this latter class would launch a massed
attack against us after our movement had started; but, of course, it was
only a pen-and-ink attack, for the goose-quill is the only weapon which
these VO"LKISCH lancers wield. We had declared one of our principles
thus: "We shall meet violence with violence in our own defence".
Naturally that principle disturbed the equanimity of the knights of the
pen. They reproached us bitterly not only for what they called our crude
worship of the cudgel but also because, according to them, we had no
intellectual forces on our side. These charlatans did not think for a
moment that a Demosthenes could be reduced to silence at a mass-meeting
by fifty idiots who had come there to shout him down and use their fists
against his supporters. The innate cowardice of the pen-and-ink
charlatan prevents him from exposing himself to such a danger, for he
always works in safe retirement and never dares to make a noise or come
forward in public.

Even to-day I must warn the members of our young movement in the
strongest possible terms to guard against the danger of falling into the
snare of those who call themselves 'silent workers'. These 'silent
workers' are not only a whitelivered lot but are also, and always will
be, ignorant do-nothings. A man who is aware of certain happenings and
knows that a certain danger threatens, and at the same time sees a
certain remedy which can be employed against it, is in duty bound not to
work in silence but to come into the open and publicly fight for the
destruction of the evil and the acceptance of his own remedy. If he does
not do so, then he is neglecting his duty and shows that he is weak in
character and that he fails to act either because of his timidity, or
indolence or incompetence. Most of these 'silent workers' generally
pretend to know God knows what. Not one of them is capable of any real
achievement, but they keep on trying to fool the world with their
antics. Though quite indolent, they try to create the impression that
their 'silent work' keeps them very busy. To put it briefly, they are
sheer swindlers, political jobbers who feel chagrined by the honest work
which others are doing. When you find one of these VO"LKISCH moths
buzzing over the value of his 'silent work' you may be sure that you are
dealing with a fellow who does no productive work at all but steals from
others the fruits of their honest labour.

In addition to all this one ought to note the arrogance and conceited
impudence with which these obscurantist idlers try to tear to pieces the
work of other people, criticizing it with an air of superiority, and
thus playing into the hands of the mortal enemy of our people.

Even the simplest follower who has the courage to stand on the table in
some beer-hall where his enemies are gathered, and manfully and openly
defend his position against them, achieves a thousand times more than
these slinking hypocrites. He at least will convert one or two people to
believe in the movement. One can examine his work and test its
effectiveness by its actual results. But those knavish swindlers--who
praise their own 'silent work' and shelter themselves under the cloak of
anonymity, are just worthless drones, in the truest sense of the term,
and are utterly useless for the purpose of our national reconstruction.

In the beginning of 1920 I put forward the idea of holding our first
mass meeting. On this proposal there were differences of opinion amongst
us. Some leading members of our party thought that the time was not ripe
for such a meeting and that the result might be detrimental. The Press
of the Left had begun to take notice of us and we were lucky enough in
being able gradually to arouse their wrath. We had begun to appear at
other meetings and to ask questions or contradict the speakers, with the
natural result that we were shouted down forthwith. But still we thereby
gained some of our ends. People began to know of our existence and the
better they understood us, the stronger became their aversion and their
enmity. Therefore we might expect that a large contingent of our friends
from the Red Camp would attend our first mass meeting.

I fully realized that our meeting would probably be broken up. But we
had to face the fight; if not now, then some months later. Since the
first day of our foundation we were resolved to secure the future of the
movement by fighting our way forward in a spirit of blind faith and
ruthless determination. I was well acquainted with the mentality of all
those who belonged to the Red Camp, and I knew quite well that if we
opposed them tooth and nail not only would we make an impression on them
but that we even might win new followers for ourselves. Therefore I felt
that we must decide on a policy of active opposition.

Herr Harrer was then chairman of our party. He did not see eye to eye
with me as to the opportune time for our first mass meeting. Accordingly
he felt himself obliged to resign from the leadership of the movement,
as an upright and honest man. Herr Anton Drexler took his place. I kept
the work of organizing the propaganda in my own hands and I listened to
no compromise in carrying it out.

We decided on February 24th 1920 as the date for the first great popular
meeting to be held under the aegis of this movement which was hitherto
unknown.

I made all the preparatory arrangements personally. They did not take
very long. The whole apparatus of our organization was set in motion for
the purpose of being able to secure a rapid decision as to our policy.
Within twenty-four hours we had to decide on the attitude we should take
in regard to the questions of the day which would be put forward at the
mass meeting. The notices which advertised the meeting had to bring
these points before the public. In this direction we were forced to
depend on the use of posters and leaflets, the contents of which and the
manner in which they were displayed were decided upon in accordance with
the principles which I have already laid down in dealing with propaganda
in general. They were produced in a form which would appeal to the
crowd. They concentrated on a few points which were repeated again and
again. The text was concise and definite, an absolutely dogmatic form of
expression being used. We distributed these posters and leaflets with a
dogged energy and then we patiently waited for the effect they would
produce.

For our principal colour we chose red, as it has an exciting effect on
the eye and was therefore calculated to arouse the attention of our
opponents and irritate them. Thus they would have to take notice of
us--whether they liked it or not--and would not forget us.

One result of our tactics was to show up clearly the close political
fraternization that existed also here in Bavaria between the Marxists
and the Centre Party. The political party that held power in Bavaria,
which was the Bavarian People's Party (affiliated with the Centre Party)
did its best to counteract the effect which our placards were having on
the 'Red' masses. Thus they made a definite step to fetter our
activities. If the police could find no other grounds for prohibiting
our placards, then they might claim that we were disturbing the traffic
in the streets. And thus the so-called German National People's Party
calmed the anxieties of their 'Red' allies by completely prohibiting
those placards which proclaimed a message that was bringing back to the
bosom of their own people hundreds of thousands of workers who had been
misled by international agitators and incensed against their own nation.
These placards bear witness to the bitterness of the struggle in which
the young movement was then engaged. Future generations will find in
these placards a documentary proof of our determination and the justice
of our own cause. And these placards will also prove how the so-called
national officials took arbitrary action to strangle a movement that did
not please them, because it was nationalizing the broad masses of the
people and winning them back to their own racial stock.

These placards will also help to refute the theory that there was then a
national government in Bavaria and they will afford documentary
confirmation of the fact that if Bavaria remained nationally-minded
during the years 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922 and 1923, this was not due to a
national government but it was because the national spirit gradually
gained a deeper hold on the people and the Government was forced to
follow public feeling. The Government authorities themselves did
everything in their power to hamper this process of recovery and make it
impossible. But in this connection two officials must be mentioned as
outstanding exceptions.

Ernst Po"hner was Chief of Police at the time. He had a loyal counsellor
in Dr. Frick, who was his chief executive official. These were the only
men among the higher officials who had the courage to place the
interests of their country before their own interests in holding on to
their jobs. Of those in responsible positions Ernst Po"hner was the only
one who did not pay court to the mob but felt that his duty was towards
the nation as such and was ready to risk and sacrifice everything, even
his personal livelihood, to help in the restoration of the German
people, whom he dearly loved. For that reason he was a bitter thorn in
the side of the venal group of Government officials. It was not the
interests of the nation or the necessity of a national revival that
inspired or directed their conduct. They simply truckled to the wishes
of the Government, so as to secure their daily bread for themselves, but
they had no thought whatsoever for the national welfare that had been
entrusted to their care.

Above all, Po"hner was one of those people who, in contradistinction to
the majority of our so-called defenders of the authority of the State,
did not fear to incur the enmity of the traitors to the country and the
nation but rather courted it as a mark of honour and honesty. For such
men the hatred of the Jews and Marxists and the lies and calumnies they
spread, were their only source of happiness in the midst of the national
misery. Po"hner was a man of granite loyalty. He was like one of the
ascetic characters of the classical era and was at the same time that
kind of straightforward German for whom the saying 'Better dead than a
slave' is not an empty phrase but a veritable heart's cry.

In my opinion he and his collaborator, Dr. Frick, are the only men
holding positions then in Bavaria who have the right to be considered as
having taken active part in the creation of a national Bavaria.

Before holding our first great mass meeting it was necessary not only to
have our propaganda material ready but also to have the main items of
our programme printed.

In the second volume of this book I shall give a detailed account of the
guiding principles which we then followed in drawing up our programme.
Here I will only say that the programme was arranged not merely to set
forth the form and content of the young movement but also with an eye to
making it understood among the broad masses. The so-called intellectual
circles made jokes and sneered at it and then tried to criticize it. But
the effect of our programme proved that the ideas which we then held
were right.

During those years I saw dozens of new movements arise and disappear
without leaving a trace behind. Only one movement has survived. It is
the National Socialist German Labour Party. To-day I am more convinced
than ever before that, though they may combat us and try to paralyse our
movement, and though pettifogging party ministers may forbid us the
right of free speech, they cannot prevent the triumph of our ideas. When
the present system of statal administration and even the names of the
political parties that represent it will be forgotten, the programmatic
basis of the National Socialist movement will supply the groundwork on
which the future State will be built.

The meetings which we held before January 1920 had enabled us to collect
the financial means that were necessary to have our first pamphlets and
posters and programmes printed.

I shall bring the first part of this book to a close by referring to our
first great mass meeting, because that meeting marked the occasion on
which our framework as a small party had to be broken up and we started
to become the most powerful factor of this epoch in the influence we
exercised on public opinion. At that time my chief anxiety was that we
might not fill the hall and that we might have to face empty benches. I
myself was firmly convinced that if only the people would come this day
would turn out a great success for the young movement. That was my
feeling as I waited impatiently for the hour to come.

It had been announced that the meeting would begin at 7.30. A
quarter-of-an-hour before the opening time I walked through the chief
hall of the Hofbra"uhaus on the PLATZ in Munich and my heart was nearly
bursting with joy. The great hall--for at that time it seemed very big
to me--was filled to overflowing. Nearly 2,000 people were present. And,
above all, those people had come whom we had always wished to reach.
More than half the audience consisted of persons who seemed to be
communists or independents. Our first great demonstration was destined,
in their view, to come to an abrupt end.

But things happened otherwise. When the first speaker had finished I got
up to speak. After a few minutes I was met with a hailstorm of
interruptions and violent encounters broke out in the body of the hall.
A handful of my loyal war comrades and some other followers grappled
with the disturbers and restored order in a little while. I was able to
continue my speech. After half an hour the applause began to drown the
interruptions and the hootings. Then interruptions gradually ceased and
applause took their place. When I finally came to explain the
twenty-five points and laid them, point after point, before the masses
gathered there and asked them to pass their own judgment on each point,
one point after another was accepted with increasing enthusiasm. When
the last point was reached I had before me a hall full of people united
by a new conviction, a new faith and a new will.

Nearly four hours had passed when the hall began to clear. As the masses
streamed towards the exits, crammed shoulder to shoulder, shoving and
pushing, I knew that a movement was now set afoot among the German
people which would never pass into oblivion.

A fire was enkindled from whose glowing heat the sword would be
fashioned which would restore freedom to the German Siegfried and bring
back life to the German nation.

Beside the revival which I then foresaw, I also felt that the Goddess of
Vengeance was now getting ready to redress the treason of the 9th of
November, 1918. The hall was emptied. The movement was on the march.





VOLUME II: THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST MOVEMENT




CHAPTER I



WELTANSCHAUUNG AND PARTY


On February 24th, 1920, the first great mass meeting under the auspices
of the new movement took place. In the Banquet Hall of the Hofbra"uhaus
in Munich the twenty-five theses which constituted the programme of our
new party were expounded to an audience of nearly two thousand people
and each thesis was enthusiastically received.

Thus we brought to the knowledge of the public those first principles
and lines of action along which the new struggle was to be conducted for
the abolition of a confused mass of obsolete ideas and opinions which
had obscure and often pernicious tendencies. A new force was to make its
appearance among the timid and feckless bourgeoisie. This force was
destined to impede the triumphant advance of the Marxists and bring the
Chariot of Fate to a standstill just as it seemed about to reach its
goal.

It was evident that this new movement could gain the public significance
and support which are necessary pre-requisites in such a gigantic
struggle only if it succeeded from the very outset in awakening a
sacrosanct conviction in the hearts of its followers, that here it was
not a case of introducing a new electoral slogan into the political
field but that an entirely new WELTANSCHAUUNG, which was of a radical
significance, had to be promoted.

One must try to recall the miserable jumble of opinions that used to be
arrayed side by side to form the usual Party Programme, as it was
called, and one must remember how these opinions used to be brushed up
or dressed in a new form from time to time. If we would properly
understand these programmatic monstrosities we must carefully
investigate the motives which inspired the average bourgeois 'programme
committee'.

Those people are always influenced by one and the same preoccupation
when they introduce something new into their programme or modify
something already contained in it. That preoccupation is directed
towards the results of the next election. The moment these artists in
parliamentary government have the first glimmering of a suspicion that
their darling public may be ready to kick up its heels and escape from
the harness of the old party wagon they begin to paint the shafts with
new colours. On such occasions the party astrologists and horoscope
readers, the so-called 'experienced men' and 'experts', come forward.
For the most part they are old parliamentary hands whose political
schooling has furnished them with ample experience. They can remember
former occasions when the masses showed signs of losing patience and
they now diagnose the menace of a similar situation arising. Resorting
to their old prescription, they form a 'committee'. They go around among
the darling public and listen to what is being said. They dip their
noses into the newspapers and gradually begin to scent what it is that
their darlings, the broad masses, are wishing for, what they reject and
what they are hoping for. The groups that belong to each trade or
business, and even office employees, are carefully studied and their
innermost desires are investigated. The 'malicious slogans' of the
opposition from which danger is threatened are now suddenly looked upon
as worthy of reconsideration, and it often happens that these slogans,
to the great astonishment of those who originally coined and circulated
them, now appear to be quite harmless and indeed are to be found among
the dogmas of the old parties.

So the committees meet to revise the old programme and draw up a new
one.

For these people change their convictions just as the soldier changes
his shirt in war--when the old one is bug-eaten. In the new programme
everyone gets everything he wants. The farmer is assured that the
interests of agriculture will be safeguarded. The industrialist is
assured of protection for his products. The consumer is assured that his
interests will be protected in the market prices. Teachers are given
higher salaries and civil servants will have better pensions. Widows and
orphans will receive generous assistance from the State. Trade will be
promoted. The tariff will be lowered and even the taxes, though they
cannot be entirely abolished, will be almost abolished. It sometimes
happens that one section of the public is forgotten or that one of the
demands mooted among the public has not reached the ears of the party.
This is also hurriedly patched on to the whole, should there be any
space available for it: until finally it is felt that there are good
grounds for hoping that the whole normal host of philistines, including
their wives, will have their anxieties laid to rest and will beam with
satisfaction once again. And so, internally armed with faith in the
goodness of God and the impenetrable stupidity of the electorate, the
struggle for what is called 'the reconstruction of the REICH' can now
begin.

When the election day is over and the parliamentarians have held their
last public meeting for the next five years, when they can leave their
job of getting the populace to toe the line and can now devote
themselves to higher and more pleasing tasks--then the programme
committee is dissolved and the struggle for the progressive
reorganization of public affairs becomes once again a business of
earning one's daily bread, which for the parliamentarians means merely
the attendance that is required in order to be able to draw their daily
remunerations. Morning after morning the honourable deputy wends his way
to the House, and though he may not enter the Chamber itself he gets at
least as far as the front hall, where he will find the register on which
the names of the deputies in attendance have to be inscribed. As a part
of his onerous service to his constituents he enters his name, and in
return receives a small indemnity as a well-earned reward for his
unceasing and exhausting labours.

When four years have passed, or in the meantime if there should be some
critical weeks during which the parliamentary corporations have to face
the danger of being dissolved, these honourable gentlemen become
suddenly seized by an irresistible desire to act. Just as the grub-worm
cannot help growing into a cock-chafer, these parliamentarian worms
leave the great House of Puppets and flutter on new wings out among the
beloved public. They address the electors once again, give an account of
the enormous labours they have accomplished and emphasize the malicious
obstinacy of their opponents. They do not always meet with grateful
applause; for occasionally the unintelligent masses throw rude and
unfriendly remarks in their faces. When this spirit of public
ingratitude reaches a certain pitch there is only one way of saving the
situation. The prestige of the party must be burnished up again. The
programme has to be amended. The committee is called into existence once
again. And the swindle begins anew. Once we understand the impenetrable
stupidity of our public we cannot be surprised that such tactics turn
out successful. Led by the Press and blinded once again by the alluring
appearance of the new programme, the bourgeois as well as the
proletarian herds of voters faithfully return to the common stall and
re-elect their old deceivers. The 'people's man' and labour candidate
now change back again into the parliamentarian grub and become fat and
rotund as they batten on the leaves that grow on the tree of public
life--to be retransformed into the glittering butterfly after another
four years have passed.

Scarcely anything else can be so depressing as to watch this process in
sober reality and to be the eyewitness of this repeatedly recurring
fraud. On a spiritual training ground of that kind it is not possible
for the bourgeois forces to develop the strength which is necessary to
carry on the fight against the organized might of Marxism. Indeed they
have never seriously thought of doing so. Though these parliamentary
quacks who represent the white race are generally recognized as persons
of quite inferior mental capacity, they are shrewd enough to know that
they could not seriously entertain the hope of being able to use the
weapon of Western Democracy to fight a doctrine for the advance of which
Western Democracy, with all its accessories, is employed as a means to
an end. Democracy is exploited by the Marxists for the purpose of
paralysing their opponents and gaining for themselves a free hand to put
their own methods into action. When certain groups of Marxists use all
their ingenuity for the time being to make it be believed that they are
inseparably attached to the principles of democracy, it may be well to
recall the fact that when critical occasions arose these same gentlemen
snapped their fingers at the principle of decision by majority vote, as
that principle is understood by Western Democracy. Such was the case in
those days when the bourgeois parliamentarians, in their monumental
shortsightedness, believed that the security of the REICH was guaranteed
because it had an overwhelming numerical majority in its favour, and the
Marxists did not hesitate suddenly to grasp supreme power in their own
hands, backed by a mob of loafers, deserters, political place-hunters
and Jewish dilettanti. That was a blow in the face for that democracy in
which so many parliamentarians believed. Only those credulous
parliamentary wizards who represented bourgeois democracy could have
believed that the brutal determination of those whose interest it is to
spread the Marxist world-pest, of which they are the carriers, could for
a moment, now or in the future, be held in check by the magical formulas
of Western Parliamentarianism. Marxism will march shoulder to shoulder
with democracy until it succeeds indirectly in securing for its own
criminal purposes even the support of those whose minds are nationally
orientated and whom Marxism strives to exterminate. But if the Marxists
should one day come to believe that there was a danger that from this
witch's cauldron of our parliamentary democracy a majority vote might be
concocted, which by reason of its numerical majority would be empowered
to enact legislation and might use that power seriously to combat
Marxism, then the whole parliamentarian hocus-pocus would be at an end.
Instead of appealing to the democratic conscience, the standard bearers
of the Red International would immediately send forth a furious
rallying-cry among the proletarian masses and the ensuing fight would
not take place in the sedate atmosphere of Parliament but in the
factories and the streets. Then democracy would be annihilated
forthwith. And what the intellectual prowess of the apostles who
represented the people in Parliament had failed to accomplish would now
be successfully carried out by the crow-bar and the sledge-hammer of the
exasperated proletarian masses--just as in the autumn of 1918. At a blow
they would awaken the bourgeois world to see the madness of thinking
that the Jewish drive towards world-conquest can be effectually opposed
by means of Western Democracy.

As I have said, only a very credulous soul could think of binding
himself to observe the rules of the game when he has to face a player
for whom those rules are nothing but a mere bluff or a means of serving
his own interests, which means he will discard them when they prove no
longer useful for his purpose.

All the parties that profess so-called bourgeois principles look upon
political life as in reality a struggle for seats in Parliament. The
moment their principles and convictions are of no further use in that
struggle they are thrown overboard, as if they were sand ballast. And
the programmes are constructed in such a way that they can be dealt with
in like manner. But such practice has a correspondingly weakening effect
on the strength of those parties. They lack the great magnetic force
which alone attracts the broad masses; for these masses always respond
to the compelling force which emanates from absolute faith in the ideas
put forward, combined with an indomitable zest to fight for and defend
them.

At a time in which the one side, armed with all the fighting power that
springs from a systematic conception of life--even though it be criminal
in a thousand ways--makes an attack against the established order the
other side will be able to resist when it draws its strength from a new
faith, which in our case is a political faith. This faith must supersede
the weak and cowardly command to defend. In its stead we must raise the
battle-cry of a courageous and ruthless attack. Our present movement is
accused, especially by the so-called national bourgeois cabinet
ministers--the Bavarian representatives of the Centre, for example--of
heading towards a revolution. We have one answer to give to those
political pigmies. We say to them: We are trying to make up for that
which you, in your criminal stupidity, have failed to carry out. By your
parliamentarian jobbing you have helped to drag the nation into ruin.
But we, by our aggressive policy, are setting up a new WELTANSCHAUUNG
which we shall defend with indomitable devotion. Thus we are building
the steps on which our nation once again may ascend to the temple of
freedom.

And so during the first stages of founding our movement we had to take
special care that our militant group which fought for the establishment
of a new and exalted political faith should not degenerate into a
society for the promotion of parliamentarian interests.

The first preventive measure was to lay down a programme which of itself
would tend towards developing a certain moral greatness that would scare
away all the petty and weakling spirits who make up the bulk of our
present party politicians.

Those fatal defects which finally led to Germany's downfall afford the
clearest proof of how right we were in considering it absolutely
necessary to set up programmatic aims which were sharply and distinctly
defined.

Because we recognized the defects above mentioned, we realized that a
new conception of the State had to be formed, which in itself became a
part of our new conception of life in general.

In the first volume of this book I have already dealt with the term
VO"LKISCH, and I said then that this term has not a sufficiently precise
meaning to furnish the kernel around which a closely consolidated
militant community could be formed. All kinds of people, with all kinds
of divergent opinions, are parading about at the present moment under
the device VO"LKISCH on their banners. Before I come to deal with the
purposes and aims of the National Socialist Labour Party I want to
establish a clear understanding of what is meant by the concept VO"LKISCH
and herewith explain its relation to our party movement. The word
VO"LKISCH does not express any clearly specified idea. It may be
interpreted in several ways and in practical application it is just as
general as the word 'religious', for instance. It is difficult to attach
any precise meaning to this latter word, either as a theoretical concept
or as a guiding principle in practical life. The word 'religious'
acquires a precise meaning only when it is associated with a distinct
and definite form through which the concept is put into practice. To say
that a person is 'deeply religious' may be very fine phraseology; but,
generally speaking, it tells us little or nothing. There may be some few
people who are content with such a vague description and there may even
be some to whom the word conveys a more or less definite picture of the
inner quality of a person thus described. But, since the masses of the
people are not composed of philosophers or saints, such a vague
religious idea will mean for them nothing else than to justify each
individual in thinking and acting according to his own bent. It will not
lead to that practical faith into which the inner religious yearning is
transformed only when it leaves the sphere of general metaphysical ideas
and is moulded to a definite dogmatic belief. Such a belief is certainly
not an end in itself, but the means to an end. Yet it is a means without
which the end could never be reached at all. This end, however, is not
merely something ideal; for at the bottom it is eminently practical. We
must always bear in mind the fact that, generally speaking, the highest
ideals are always the outcome of some profound vital need, just as the
most sublime beauty owes its nobility of shape, in the last analysis, to
the fact that the most beautiful form is the form that is best suited to
the purpose it is meant to serve.

By helping to lift the human being above the level of mere animal
existence, Faith really contributes to consolidate and safeguard its own
existence. Taking humanity as it exists to-day and taking into
consideration the fact that the religious beliefs which it generally
holds and which have been consolidated through our education, so that
they serve as moral standards in practical life, if we should now
abolish religious teaching and not replace it by anything of equal value
the result would be that the foundations of human existence would be
seriously shaken. We may safely say that man does not live merely to
serve higher ideals, but that these ideals, in their turn, furnish the
necessary conditions of his existence as a human being. And thus the
circle is closed.

Of course, the word 'religious' implies some ideas and beliefs that are
fundamental. Among these we may reckon the belief in the immortality of
the soul, its future existence in eternity, the belief in the existence
of a Higher Being, and so on. But all these ideas, no matter how firmly
the individual believes in them, may be critically analysed by any
person and accepted or rejected accordingly, until the emotional concept
or yearning has been transformed into an active service that is governed
by a clearly defined doctrinal faith. Such a faith furnishes the
practical outlet for religious feeling to express itself and thus opens
the way through which it can be put into practice.

Without a clearly defined belief, the religious feeling would not only
be worthless for the purposes of human existence but even might
contribute towards a general disorganization, on account of its vague
and multifarious tendencies.

What I have said about the word 'religious' can also be applied to the
term VO"LKISCH. This word also implies certain fundamental ideas. Though
these ideas are very important indeed, they assume such vague and
indefinite forms that they cannot be estimated as having a greater value
than mere opinions, until they become constituent elements in the
structure of a political party. For in order to give practical force to
the ideals that grow out of a WELTANSCHAUUNG and to answer the demands
which are a logical consequence of such ideals, mere sentiment and inner
longing are of no practical assistance, just as freedom cannot be won by
a universal yearning for it. No. Only when the idealistic longing for
independence is organized in such a way that it can fight for its ideal
with military force, only then can the urgent wish of a people be
transformed into a potent reality.

Any WELTANSCHAUUNG, though a thousandfold right and supremely
beneficial to humanity, will be of no practical service for the
maintenance of a people as long as its principles have not yet become
the rallying point of a militant movement. And, on its own side, this
movement will remain a mere party until is has brought its ideals to
victory and transformed its party doctrines into the new foundations of
a State which gives the national community its final shape.

If an abstract conception of a general nature is to serve as the basis
of a future development, then the first prerequisite is to form a clear
understanding of the nature and character and scope of this conception.
For only on such a basis can a movement he founded which will be able to
draw the necessary fighting strength from the internal cohesion of its
principles and convictions. From general ideas a political programme
must be constructed and a general WELTANSCHAUUNG must receive the stamp
of a definite political faith. Since this faith must be directed towards
ends that have to be attained in the world of practical reality, not
only must it serve the general ideal as such but it must also take into
consideration the means that have to be employed for the triumph of the
ideal. Here the practical wisdom of the statesman must come to the
assistance of the abstract idea, which is correct in itself. In that way
an eternal ideal, which has everlasting significance as a guiding star
to mankind, must be adapted to the exigencies of human frailty so that
its practical effect may not be frustrated at the very outset through
those shortcomings which are general to mankind. The exponent of truth
must here go hand in hand with him who has a practical knowledge of the
soul of the people, so that from the realm of eternal verities and
ideals what is suited to the capacities of human nature may be selected
and given practical form. To take abstract and general principles,
derived from a WELTANSCHAUUNG which is based on a solid foundation of
truth, and transform them into a militant community whose members have
the same political faith--a community which is precisely defined,
rigidly organized, of one mind and one will--such a transformation is
the most important task of all; for the possibility of successfully
carrying out the idea is dependent on the successful fulfilment of that
task. Out of the army of millions who feel the truth of these ideas, and
even may understand them to some extent, one man must arise. This man
must have the gift of being able to expound general ideas in a clear and
definite form, and, from the world of vague ideas shimmering before the
minds of the masses, he must formulate principles that will be as
clear-cut and firm as granite. He must fight for these principles as the
only true ones, until a solid rock of common faith and common will
emerges above the troubled waves of vagrant ideas. The general
justification of such action is to be sought in the necessity for it and
the individual will be justified by his success.

If we try to penetrate to the inner meaning of the word VO"LKISCH we
arrive at the following conclusions:

The current political conception of the world is that the State, though
it possesses a creative force which can build up civilizations, has
nothing in common with the concept of race as the foundation of the
State. The State is considered rather as something which has resulted
from economic necessity, or, at best, the natural outcome of the play of
political forces and impulses. Such a conception of the foundations of
the State, together with all its logical consequences, not only ignores
the primordial racial forces that underlie the State, but it also leads
to a policy in which the importance of the individual is minimized. If
it be denied that races differ from one another in their powers of
cultural creativeness, then this same erroneous notion must necessarily
influence our estimation of the value of the individual. The assumption
that all races are alike leads to the assumption that nations and
individuals are equal to one another. And international Marxism is
nothing but the application--effected by the Jew, Karl Marx--of a
general conception of life to a definite profession of political faith;
but in reality that general concept had existed long before the time of
Karl Marx. If it had not already existed as a widely diffused infection
the amazing political progress of the Marxist teaching would never have
been possible. In reality what distinguished Karl Marx from the millions
who were affected in the same way was that, in a world already in a
state of gradual decomposition, he used his keen powers of prognosis to
detect the essential poisons, so as to extract them and concentrate
them, with the art of a necromancer, in a solution which would bring
about the rapid destruction of the independent nations on the globe. But
all this was done in the service of his race.

Thus the Marxist doctrine is the concentrated extract of the mentality
which underlies the general concept of life to-day. For this reason
alone it is out of the question and even ridiculous to think that what
is called our bourgeois world can put up any effective fight against
Marxism. For this bourgeois world is permeated with all those same
poisons and its conception of life in general differs from Marxism only
in degree and in the character of the persons who hold it. The bourgeois
world is Marxist but believes in the possibility of a certain group of
people--that is to say, the bourgeoisie--being able to dominate the
world, while Marxism itself systematically aims at delivering the world
into the hands of the Jews.

Over against all this, the VO"LKISCH concept of the world recognizes that
the primordial racial elements are of the greatest significance for
mankind. In principle, the State is looked upon only as a means to an
end and this end is the conservation of the racial characteristics of
mankind. Therefore on the VO"LKISCH principle we cannot admit that one
race is equal to another. By recognizing that they are different, the
VO"LKISCH concept separates mankind into races of superior and inferior
quality. On the basis of this recognition it feels bound in conformity
with the eternal Will that dominates the universe, to postulate the
victory of the better and stronger and the subordination of the inferior
and weaker. And so it pays homage to the truth that the principle
underlying all Nature's operations is the aristocratic principle and it
believes that this law holds good even down to the last individual
organism. It selects individual values from the mass and thus operates
as an organizing principle, whereas Marxism acts as a disintegrating
solvent. The VO"LKISCH belief holds that humanity must have its ideals,
because ideals are a necessary condition of human existence itself. But,
on the other hand, it denies that an ethical ideal has the right to
prevail if it endangers the existence of a race that is the
standard-bearer of a higher ethical ideal. For in a world which would be
composed of mongrels and negroids all ideals of human beauty and
nobility and all hopes of an idealized future for our humanity would be
lost forever.

On this planet of ours human culture and civilization are indissolubly
bound up with the presence of the Aryan. If he should be exterminated or
subjugated, then the dark shroud of a new barbarian era would enfold the
earth.

To undermine the existence of human culture by exterminating its
founders and custodians would be an execrable crime in the eyes of those
who believe that the folk-idea lies at the basis of human existence.
Whoever would dare to raise a profane hand against that highest image of
God among His creatures would sin against the bountiful Creator of this
marvel and would collaborate in the expulsion from Paradise.

Hence the folk concept of the world is in profound accord with Nature's
will; because it restores the free play of the forces which will lead
the race through stages of sustained reciprocal education towards a
higher type, until finally the best portion of mankind will possess the
earth and will be free to work in every domain all over the world and
even reach spheres that lie outside the earth.

We all feel that in the distant future many may be faced with problems
which can be solved only by a superior race of human beings, a race
destined to become master of all the other peoples and which will have
at its disposal the means and resources of the whole world.

It is evident that such a general sketch of the ideas implied in the
folk concept of the world may easily be interpreted in a thousand
different ways. As a matter of fact there is scarcely one of our recent
political movements that does not refer at some point to this conception
of the world. But the fact that this conception of the world still
maintains its independent existence in face of all the others proves
that their ways of looking at life are quite difierent from this. Thus
the Marxist conception, directed by a central organization endowed with
supreme authority, is opposed by a motley crew of opinions which is not
very impressive in face of the solid phalanx presented by the enemy.
Victory cannot be achieved with such weak weapons. Only when the
international idea, politically organized by Marxism, is confronted by
the folk idea, equally well organized in a systematic way and equally
well led--only then will the fighting energy in the one camp be able to
meet that of the other on an equal footing; and victory will be found on
the side of eternal truth.

But a general conception of life can never be given an organic
embodiment until it is precisely and definitely formulated. The function
which dogma fulfils in religious belief is parallel to the function
which party principles fulfil for a political party which is in the
process of being built up. Therefore, for the conception of life that is
based on the folk idea it is necessary that an instrument be forged
which can be used in fighting for this ideal, similar to the Marxist
party organization which clears the way for internationalism.

And this is the aim which the German National Socialist Labour Movement
pursues.

The folk conception must therefore be definitely formulated so that it
may be organically incorporated in the party. That is a necessary
prerequisite for the success of this idea. And that it is so is very
clearly proved even by the indirect acknowledgment of those who oppose
such an amalgamation of the folk idea with party principles. The very
people who never tire of insisting again and again that the conception
of life based on the folk idea can never be the exclusive property of a
single group, because it lies dormant or 'lives' in myriads of hearts,
only confirm by their own statements the simple fact that the general
presence of such ideas in the hearts of millions of men has not proved
sufficient to impede the victory of the opposing ideas, which are
championed by a political party organized on the principle of class
conflict. If that were not so, the German people ought already to have
gained a gigantic victory instead of finding themselves on the brink of
the abyss. The international ideology achieved success because it was
organized in a militant political party which was always ready to take
the offensive. If hitherto the ideas opposed to the international
concept have had to give way before the latter the reason is that they
lacked a united front to fight for their cause. A doctrine which forms a
definite outlook on life cannot struggle and triumph by allowing the
right of free interpretation of its general teaching, but only by
defining that teaching in certain articles of faith that have to be
accepted and incorporating it in a political organization.

Therefore I considered it my special duty to extract from the extensive
but vague contents of a general WELTANSCHAUUNG the ideas which were
essential and give them a more or less dogmatic form. Because of their
precise and clear meaning, these ideas are suited to the purpose of
uniting in a common front all those who are ready to accept them as
principles. In other words: The German National Socialist Labour Party
extracts the essential principles from the general conception of the
world which is based on the folk idea. On these principles it
establishes a political doctrine which takes into account the practical
realities of the day, the nature of the times, the available human
material and all its deficiencies. Through this political doctrine it is
possible to bring great masses of the people into an organization which
is constructed as rigidly as it could be. Such an organization is the
main preliminary that is necessary for the final triumph of this ideal.




CHAPTER II



THE STATE


Already in 1920-1921 certain circles belonging to the effete bourgeois
class accused our movement again and again of taking up a negative
attitude towards the modern State. For that reason the motley gang of
camp followers attached to the various political parties, representing a
heterogeneous conglomeration of political views, assumed the right of
utilizing all available means to suppress the protagonists of this young
movement which was preaching a new political gospel. Our opponents
deliberately ignored the fact that the bourgeois class itself stood for
no uniform opinion as to what the State really meant and that the
bourgeoisie did not and could not give any coherent definition of this
institution. Those whose duty it is to explain what is meant when we
speak of the State, hold chairs in State universities, often in the
department of constitutional law, and consider it their highest duty to
find explanations and justifications for the more or less fortunate
existence of that particular form of State which provides them with
their daily bread. The more absurd such a form of State is the more
obscure and artificial and incomprehensible are the definitions which
are advanced to explain the purpose of its existence. What, for
instance, could a royal and imperial university professor write about
the meaning and purpose of a State in a country whose statal form
represented the greatest monstrosity of the twentieth century? That
would be a difficult undertaking indeed, in view of the fact that the
contemporary professor of constitutional law is obliged not so much to
serve the cause of truth but rather to serve a certain definite purpose.
And this purpose is to defend at all costs the existence of that
monstrous human mechanism which we now call the State. Nobody can be
surprised if concrete facts are evaded as far as possible when the
problem of the State is under discussion and if professors adopt the
tactics of concealing themselves in morass of abstract values and duties
and purposes which are described as 'ethical' and 'moral'.

Generally speaking, these various theorists may be classed in three
groups:

1. Those who hold that the State is a more or less voluntary association
of men who have agreed to set up and obey a ruling authority.

This is numerically the largest group. In its ranks are to be found
those who worship our present principle of legalized authority. In their
eyes the will of the people has no part whatever in the whole affair.
For them the fact that the State exists is sufficient reason to consider
it sacred and inviolable. To accept this aberration of the human brain
one would have to have a sort of canine adoration for what is called the
authority of the State. In the minds of these people the means is
substituted for the end, by a sort of sleight-of-hand movement. The
State no longer exists for the purpose of serving men but men exist for
the purpose of adoring the authority of the State, which is vested in
its functionaries, even down to the smallest official. So as to prevent
this placid and ecstatic adoration from changing into something that
might become in any way disturbing, the authority of the State is
limited simply to the task of preserving order and tranquillity.
Therewith it is no longer either a means or an end. The State must see
that public peace and order are preserved and, in their turn, order and
peace must make the existence of the State possible. All life must move
between these two poles. In Bavaria this view is upheld by the artful
politicians of the Bavarian Centre, which is called the 'Bavarian
Populist Party'. In Austria the Black-and-Yellow legitimists adopt a
similar attitude. In the REICH, unfortunately, the so-called
conservative elements follow the same line of thought.

2. The second group is somewhat smaller in numbers. It includes those
who would make the existence of the State dependent on some conditions
at least. They insist that not only should there be a uniform system of
government but also, if possible, that only one language should be used,
though solely for technical reasons of administration. In this view the
authority of the State is no longer the sole and exclusive end for which
the State exists. It must also promote the good of its subjects. Ideas
of 'freedom', mostly based on a misunderstanding of the meaning of that
word, enter into the concept of the State as it exists in the minds of
this group. The form of government is no longer considered inviolable
simply because it exists. It must submit to the test of practical
efficiency. Its venerable age no longer protects it from being
criticized in the light of modern exigencies. Moreover, in this view the
first duty laid upon the State is to guarantee the economic well-being
of the individual citizens. Hence it is judged from the practical
standpoint and according to general principles based on the idea of
economic returns. The chief representatives of this theory of the State
are to be found among the average German bourgeoisie, especially our
liberal democrats.

3. The third group is numerically the smallest. In the State they
discover a means for the realization of tendencies that arise from a
policy of power, on the part of a people who are ethnically homogeneous
and speak the same language. But those who hold this view are not clear
about what they mean by 'tendencies arising from a policy of power'. A
common language is postulated not only because they hope that thereby
the State would be furnished with a solid basis for the extension of its
power outside its own frontiers, but also because they think--though
falling into a fundamental error by doing so--that such a common
language would enable them to carry out a process of nationalization in
a definite direction.

During the last century it was lamentable for those who had to witness
it, to notice how in these circles I have just mentioned the word
'Germanization' was frivolously played with, though the practice was
often well intended. I well remember how in the days of my youth this
very term used to give rise to notions which were false to an incredible
degree. Even in Pan-German circles one heard the opinion expressed that
the Austrian Germans might very well succeed in Germanizing the Austrian
Slavs, if only the Government would be ready to co-operate. Those people
did not understand that a policy of Germanization can be carried out
only as regards human beings. What they mostly meant by Germanization
was a process of forcing other people to speak the German language. But
it is almost inconceivable how such a mistake could be made as to think
that a Nigger or a Chinaman will become a German because he has learned
the German language and is willing to speak German for the future, and
even to cast his vote for a German political party. Our bourgeois
nationalists could never clearly see that such a process of
Germanization is in reality de-Germanization; for even if all the
outstanding and visible differences between the various peoples could be
bridged over and finally wiped out by the use of a common language, that
would produce a process of bastardization which in this case would not
signify Germanization but the annihilation of the German element. In the
course of history it has happened only too often that a conquering race
succeeded by external force in compelling the people whom they subjected
to speak the tongue of the conqueror and that after a thousand years
their language was spoken by another people and that thus the conqueror
finally turned out to be the conquered.

What makes a people or, to be more correct, a race, is not language but
blood. Therefore it would be justifiable to speak of Germanization only
if that process could change the blood of the people who would be
subjected to it, which is obviously impossible. A change would be
possible only by a mixture of blood, but in this case the quality of the
superior race would be debased. The final result of such a mixture would
be that precisely those qualities would be destroyed which had enabled
the conquering race to achieve victory over an inferior people. It is
especially the cultural creativeness which disappears when a superior
race intermixes with an inferior one, even though the resultant mongrel
race should excel a thousandfold in speaking the language of the race
that once had been superior. For a certain time there will be a conflict
between the different mentalities, and it may be that a nation which is
in a state of progressive degeneration will at the last moment rally its
cultural creative power and once again produce striking examples of that
power. But these results are due only to the activity of elements that
have remained over from the superior race or hybrids of the first
crossing in whom the superior blood has remained dominant and seeks to
assert itself. But this will never happen with the final descendants of
such hybrids. These are always in a state of cultural retrogression.

We must consider it as fortunate that a Germanization of Austria
according to the plan of Joseph II did not succeed. Probably the result
would have been that the Austrian State would have been able to survive,
but at the same time participation in the use of a common language would
have debased the racial quality of the German element. In the course of
centuries a certain herd instinct might have been developed but the herd
itself would have deteriorated in quality. A national State might have
arisen, but a people who had been culturally creative would have
disappeared.

For the German nation it was better that this process of intermixture
did not take place, although it was not renounced for any high-minded
reasons but simply through the short-sighted pettiness of the Habsburgs.
If it had taken place the German people could not now be looked upon as
a cultural factor.

Not only in Austria, however, but also in the REICH, these so-called
national circles were, and still are, under the influence of similar
erroneous ideas. Unfortunately, a policy towards Poland, whereby the
East was to be Germanized, was demanded by many and was based on the
same false reasoning. Here again it was believed that the Polish people
could be Germanized by being compelled to use the German language. The
result would have been fatal. A people of foreign race would have had to
use the German language to express modes of thought that were foreign to
the German, thus compromising by its own inferiority the dignity and
nobility of our nation.

It is revolting to think how much damage is indirectly done to German
prestige to-day through the fact that the German patois of the Jews when
they enter the United States enables them to be classed as Germans,
because many Americans are quite ignorant of German conditions. Among
us, nobody would think of taking these unhygienic immigrants from the
East for members of the German race and nation merely because they
mostly speak German.

What has been beneficially Germanized in the course of history was the
land which our ancestors conquered with the sword and colonized with
German tillers of the soil. To the extent that they introduced foreign
blood into our national body in this colonization, they have helped to
disintegrate our racial character, a process which has resulted in our
German hyper-individualism, though this latter characteristic is even
now frequently praised.

In this third group also there are people who, to a certain degree,
consider the State as an end in itself. Hence they consider its
preservation as one of the highest aims of human existence. Our analysis
may be summed up as follows:

All these opinions have this common feature and failing: that they are
not grounded in a recognition of the profound truth that the capacity
for creating cultural values is essentially based on the racial element
and that, in accordance with this fact, the paramount purpose of the
State is to preserve and improve the race; for this is an indispensable
condition of all progress in human civilization.

Thus the Jew, Karl Marx, was able to draw the final conclusions from
these false concepts and ideas on the nature and purpose of the State.
By eliminating from the concept of the State all thought of the
obligation which the State bears towards the race, without finding any
other formula that might be universally accepted, the bourgeois teaching
prepared the way for that doctrine which rejects the State as such.

That is why the bourgeois struggle against Marxist internationalism is
absolutely doomed to fail in this field. The bourgeois classes have
already sacrificed the basic principles which alone could furnish a
solid footing for their ideas. Their crafty opponent has perceived the
defects in their structure and advances to the assault on it with those
weapons which they themselves have placed in his hands though not
meaning to do so.

Therefore any new movement which is based on the racial concept of the
world will first of all have to put forward a clear and logical doctrine
of the nature and purpose of the State.

The fundamental principle is that the State is not an end in itself but
the means to an end. It is the preliminary condition under which alone a
higher form of human civilization can be developed, but it is not the
source of such a development. This is to be sought exclusively in the
actual existence of a race which is endowed with the gift of cultural
creativeness. There may be hundreds of excellent States on this earth,
and yet if the Aryan, who is the creator and custodian of civilization,
should disappear, all culture that is on an adequate level with the
spiritual needs of the superior nations to-day would also disappear. We
may go still further and say that the fact that States have been created
by human beings does not in the least exclude the possiblity that the
human race may become extinct, because the superior intellectual
faculties and powers of adaptation would be lost when the racial bearer
of these faculties and powers disappeared.

If, for instance, the surface of the globe should be shaken to-day by
some seismic convulsion and if a new Himalaya would emerge from the
waves of the sea, this one catastrophe alone might annihilate human
civilization. No State could exist any longer. All order would be
shattered. And all vestiges of cultural products which had been evolved
through thousands of years would disappear. Nothing would be left but
one tremendous field of death and destruction submerged in floods of
water and mud. If, however, just a few people would survive this
terrible havoc, and if these people belonged to a definite race that had
the innate powers to build up a civilization, when the commotion had
passed, the earth would again bear witness to the creative power of the
human spirit, even though a span of a thousand years might intervene.
Only with the extermination of the last race that possesses the gift of
cultural creativeness, and indeed only if all the individuals of that
race had disappeared, would the earth definitely be turned into a
desert. On the other hand, modern history furnishes examples to show
that statal institutions which owe their beginnings to members of a race
which lacks creative genius are not made of stuff that will endure. Just
as many varieties of prehistoric animals had to give way to others and
leave no trace behind them, so man will also have to give way, if he
loses that definite faculty which enables him to find the weapons that
are necessary for him to maintain his own existence.

It is not the State as such that brings about a certain definite advance
in cultural progress. The State can only protect the race that is the
cause of such progress. The State as such may well exist without
undergoing any change for hundreds of years, though the cultural
faculties and the general life of the people, which is shaped by these
faculties, may have suffered profound changes by reason of the fact that
the State did not prevent a process of racial mixture from taking place.
The present State, for instance, may continue to exist in a mere
mechanical form, but the poison of miscegenation permeating the national
body brings about a cultural decadence which manifests itself already in
various symptoms that are of a detrimental character.

Thus the indispensable prerequisite for the existence of a superior
quality of human beings is not the State but the race, which is alone
capable of producing that higher human quality.

This capacity is always there, though it will lie dormant unless
external circumstances awaken it to action. Nations, or rather races,
which are endowed with the faculty of cultural creativeness possess this
faculty in a latent form during periods when the external circumstances
are unfavourable for the time being and therefore do not allow the
faculty to express itself effectively. It is therefore outrageously
unjust to speak of the pre-Christian Germans as barbarians who had no
civilization. They never have been such. But the severity of the climate
that prevailed in the northern regions which they inhabited imposed
conditions of life which hampered a free development of their creative
faculties. If they had come to the fairer climate of the South, with no
previous culture whatsoever, and if they acquired the necessary human
material--that is to say, men of an inferior race--to serve them as
working implements, the cultural faculty dormant in them would have
splendidly blossomed forth, as happened in the case of the Greeks, for
example. But this primordial creative faculty in cultural things was not
solely due to their northern climate. For the Laplanders or the Eskimos
would not have become creators of a culture if they were transplanted to
the South. No, this wonderful creative faculty is a special gift
bestowed on the Aryan, whether it lies dormant in him or becomes active,
according as the adverse conditions of nature prevent the active
expression of that faculty or favourable circumstances permit it.

From these facts the following conclusions may be drawn:

The State is only a means to an end. Its end and its purpose is to
preserve and promote a community of human beings who are physically as
well as spiritually kindred. Above all, it must preserve the existence
of the race, thereby providing the indispensable condition for the free
development of all the forces dormant in this race. A great part of
these faculties will always have to be employed in the first place to
maintain the physical existence of the race, and only a small portion
will be free to work in the field of intellectual progress. But, as a
matter of fact, the one is always the necessary counterpart of the
other.

Those States which do not serve this purpose have no justification for
their existence. They are monstrosities. The fact that they do exist is
no more of a justification than the successful raids carried out by a
band of pirates can be considered a justification of piracy.

We National Socialists, who are fighting for a new WELTANSCHAUUNG, must
never take our stand on the famous 'basis of facts', and especially not
on mistaken facts. If we did so, we should cease to be the protagonists
of a new and great idea and would become slaves in the service of the
fallacy which is dominant to-day. We must make a clear-cut distinction
between the vessel and its contents. The State is only the vessel and
the race is what it contains. The vessel can have a meaning only if it
preserves and safeguards the contents. Otherwise it is worthless.

Hence the supreme purpose of the ethnical State is to guard and preserve
those racial elements which, through their work in the cultural field,
create that beauty and dignity which are characteristic of a higher
mankind. As Aryans, we can consider the State only as the living
organism of a people, an organism which does not merely maintain the
existence of a people, but functions in such a way as to lead its people
to a position of supreme liberty by the progressive development of the
intellectual and cultural faculties.

What they want to impose upon us as a State to-day is in most cases
nothing but a monstrosity, the product of a profound human aberration
which brings untold suffering in its train.

We National Socialists know that in holding these views we take up a
revolutionary stand in the world of to-day and that we are branded as
revolutionaries. But our views and our conduct will not be determined by
the approbation or disapprobation of our contemporaries, but only by our
duty to follow a truth which we have acknowledged. In doing this we have
reason to believe that posterity will have a clearer insight, and will
not only understand the work we are doing to-day, but will also ratify
it as the right work and will exalt it accordingly.

On these principles we National Socialists base our standards of value
in appraising a State. This value will be relative when viewed from the
particular standpoint of the individual nation, but it will be absolute
when considered from the standpoint of humanity as a whole. In other
words, this means:

That the excellence of a State can never be judged by the level of its
culture or the degree of importance which the outside world attaches to
its power, but that its excellence must be judged by the degree to which
its institutions serve the racial stock which belongs to it.

A State may be considered as a model example if it adequately serves not
only the vital needs of the racial stock it represents but if it
actually assures by its own existence the preservation of this same
racial stock, no matter what general cultural significance this statal
institution may have in the eyes of the rest of the world. For it is not
the task of the State to create human capabilities, but only to assure
free scope for the exercise of capabilities that already exist. On the
other hand, a State may be called bad if, in spite of the existence of a
high cultural level, it dooms to destruction the bearers of that culture
by breaking up their racial uniformity. For the practical effect of such
a policy would be to destroy those conditions that are indispensable for
the ulterior existence of that culture, which the State did not create
but which is the fruit of the creative power inherent in the racial
stock whose existence is assured by being united in the living organism
of the State. Once again let me emphasize the fact that the State itself
is not the substance but the form. Therefore, the cultural level is not
the standard by which we can judge the value of the State in which that
people lives. It is evident that a people which is endowed with high
creative powers in the cultural sphere is of more worth than a tribe of
negroes. And yet the statal organization of the former, if judged from
the standpoint of efficiency, may be worse than that of the negroes. Not
even the best of States and statal institutions can evolve faculties
from a people which they lack and which they never possessed, but a bad
State may gradually destroy the faculties which once existed. This it
can do by allowing or favouring the suppression of those who are the
bearers of a racial culture.

Therefore, the worth of a State can be determined only by asking how far
it actually succeeds in promoting the well-being of a definite race and
not by the role which it plays in the world at large. Its relative worth
can be estimated readily and accurately; but it is difficult to judge
its absolute worth, because the latter is conditioned not only by the
State but also by the quality and cultural level of the people that
belong to the individual State in question.

Therefore, when we speak of the high mission of the State we must not
forget that the high mission belongs to the people and that the business
of the State is to use its organizing powers for the purpose of
furnishing the necessary conditions which allow this people freely to
unfold its creative faculties. And if we ask what kind of statal
institution we Germans need, we must first have a clear notion as to the
people which that State must embrace and what purpose it must serve.

Unfortunately the German national being is not based on a uniform racial
type. The process of welding the original elements together has not gone
so far as to warrant us in saying that a new race has emerged. On the
contrary, the poison which has invaded the national body, especially
since the Thirty Years' War, has destroyed the uniform constitution not
only of our blood but also of our national soul. The open frontiers of
our native country, the association with non-German foreign elements in
the territories that lie all along those frontiers, and especially the
strong influx of foreign blood into the interior of the REICH itself,
has prevented any complete assimilation of those various elements,
because the influx has continued steadily. Out of this melting-pot no
new race arose. The heterogeneous elements continue to exist side by
side. And the result is that, especially in times of crisis, when the
herd usually flocks together, the Germans disperse in all directions.
The fundamental racial elements are not only different in different
districts, but there are also various elements in the single districts.
Beside the Nordic type we find the East-European type, beside the
Eastern there is the Dinaric, the Western type intermingling with both,
and hybrids among them all. That is a grave drawback for us. Through it
the Germans lack that strong herd instinct which arises from unity of
blood and saves nations from ruin in dangerous and critical times;
because on such occasions small differences disappear, so that a united
herd faces the enemy. What we understand by the word hyper-individualism
arises from the fact that our primordial racial elements have existed
side by side without ever consolidating. During times of peace such a
situation may offer some advantages, but, taken all in all, it has
prevented us from gaining a mastery in the world. If in its historical
development the German people had possessed the unity of herd instinct
by which other peoples have so much benefited, then the German REICH
would probably be mistress of the globe to-day. World history would have
taken another course and in this case no man can tell if what many
blinded pacifists hope to attain by petitioning, whining and crying, may
not have been reached in this way: namely, a peace which would not be
based upon the waving of olive branches and tearful misery-mongering of
pacifist old women, but a peace that would be guaranteed by the
triumphant sword of a people endowed with the power to master the world
and administer it in the service of a higher civilization.

The fact that our people did not have a national being based on a unity
of blood has been the source of untold misery for us. To many petty
German potentates it gave residential capital cities, but the German
people as a whole was deprived of its right to rulership.

Even to-day our nation still suffers from this lack of inner unity; but
what has been the cause of our past and present misfortunes may turn out
a blessing for us in the future. Though on the one hand it may be a
drawback that our racial elements were not welded together, so that no
homogeneous national body could develop, on the other hand, it was
fortunate that, since at least a part of our best blood was thus kept
pure, its racial quality was not debased.

A complete assimilation of all our racial elements would certainly have
brought about a homogeneous national organism; but, as has been proved
in the case of every racial mixture, it would have been less capable of
creating a civilization than by keeping intact its best original
elements. A benefit which results from the fact that there was no
all-round assimilation is to be seen in that even now we have large
groups of German Nordic people within our national organization, and
that their blood has not been mixed with the blood of other races. We
must look upon this as our most valuable treasure for the sake of the
future. During that dark period of absolute ignorance in regard to all
racial laws, when each individual was considered to be on a par with
every other, there could be no clear appreciation of the difference
between the various fundamental racial characteristics. We know to-day
that a complete assimilation of all the various elements which
constitute the national being might have resulted in giving us a larger
share of external power: but, on the other hand, the highest of human
aims would not have been attained, because the only kind of people which
fate has obviously chosen to bring about this perfection would have been
lost in such a general mixture of races which would constitute such a
racial amalgamation.

But what has been prevented by a friendly Destiny, without any
assistance on our part, must now be reconsidered and utilized in the
light of our new knowledge.

He who talks of the German people as having a mission to fulfil on this
earth must know that this cannot be fulfilled except by the building up
of a State whose highest purpose is to preserve and promote those nobler
elements of our race and of the whole of mankind which have remained
unimpaired.

Thus for the first time a high inner purpose is accredited to the State.
In face of the ridiculous phrase that the State should do no more than
act as the guardian of public order and tranquillity, so that everybody
can peacefully dupe everybody else, it is given a very high mission
indeed to preserve and encourage the highest type of humanity which a
beneficent Creator has bestowed on this earth. Out of a dead mechanism
which claims to be an end in itself a living organism shall arise which
has to serve one purpose exclusively: and that, indeed, a purpose which
belongs to a higher order of ideas.

As a State the German REICH shall include all Germans. Its task is not
only to gather in and foster the most valuable sections of our people
but to lead them slowly and surely to a dominant position in the world.

Thus a period of stagnation is superseded by a period of effort. And
here, as in every other sphere, the proverb holds good that to rest is
to rust; and furthermore the proverb that victory will always be won by
him who attacks. The higher the final goal which we strive to reach, and
the less it be understood at the time by the broad masses, the more
magnificent will be its success. That is what the lesson of history
teaches. And the achievement will be all the more significant if the end
is conceived in the right way and the fight carried through with
unswerving persistence. Many of the officials who direct the affairs of
State nowadays may find it easier to work for the maintenance of the
present order than to fight for a new one. They will find it more
comfortable to look upon the State as a mechanism, whose purpose is its
own preservation, and to say that 'their lives belong to the State,' as
if anything that grew from the inner life of the nation can logically
serve anything but the national being, and as if man could be made for
anything else than for his fellow beings. Naturally, it is easier, as I
have said, to consider the authority of the State as nothing but the
formal mechanism of an organization, rather than as the sovereign
incarnation of a people's instinct for self-preservation on this earth.
For these weak minds the State and the authority of the State is nothing
but an aim in itself, while for us it is an effective weapon in the
service of the great and eternal struggle for existence, a weapon which
everyone must adopt, not because it is a mere formal mechanism, but
because it is the main expression of our common will to exist.

Therefore, in the fight for our new idea, which conforms completely to
the primal meaning of life, we shall find only a small number of
comrades in a social order which has become decrepit not only physically
but mentally also. From these strata of our population only a few
exceptional people will join our ranks, only those few old people whose
hearts have remained young and whose courage is still vigorous, but not
those who consider it their duty to maintain the state of affairs that
exists.

Against us we have the innumerable army of all those who are lazy-minded
and indifferent rather than evil, and those whose self-interest leads
them to uphold the present state of affairs. On the apparent
hopelessness of our great struggle is based the magnitude of our task
and the possibilities of success. A battle-cry which from the very start
will scare off all the petty spirits, or at least discourage them, will
become the signal for a rally of all those temperaments that are of the
real fighting metal. And it must be clearly recognized that if a highly
energetic and active body of men emerge from a nation and unite in the
fight for one goal, thereby ultimately rising above the inert masses of
the people, this small percentage will become masters of the whole.
World history is made by minorities if these numerical minorities
represent in themselves the will and energy and initiative of the people
as a whole.

What seems an obstacle to many persons is really a preliminary condition
of our victory. Just because our task is so great and because so many
difficulties have to be overcome, the highest probability is that only
the best kind of protagonists will join our ranks. This selection is the
guarantee of our success. Nature generally takes certain measures to
correct the effect which racial mixture produces in life. She is not
much in favour of the mongrel. The later products of cross-breeding have
to suffer bitterly, especially the third, fourth and fifth generations.
Not only are they deprived of the higher qualities that belonged to the
parents who participated in the first mixture, but they also lack
definite will-power and vigorous vital energies owing to the lack of
harmony in the quality of their blood. At all critical moments in which
a person of pure racial blood makes correct decisions, that is to say,
decisions that are coherent and uniform, the person of mixed blood will
become confused and take measures that are incoherent. Hence we see that
a person of mixed blood is not only relatively inferior to a person of
pure blood, but is also doomed to become extinct more rapidly. In
innumerable cases wherein the pure race holds its ground the mongrel
breaks down. Therein we witness the corrective provision which Nature
adopts. She restricts the possibilities of procreation, thus impeding
the fertility of cross-breeds and bringing them to extinction.

For instance, if an individual member of a race should mingle his blood
with the member of a superior race the first result would be a lowering
of the racial level, and furthermore the descendants of this
cross-breeding would be weaker than those of the people around them who
had maintained their blood unadulterated. Where no new blood from the
superior race enters the racial stream of the mongrels, and where those
mongrels continue to cross-breed among themselves, the latter will
either die out because they have insufficient powers of resistance,
which is Nature's wise provision, or in the course of many thousands of
years they will form a new mongrel race in which the original elements
will become so wholly mixed through this millennial crossing that traces
of the original elements will be no longer recognizable. And thus a new
people would be developed which possessed a certain resistance capacity
of the herd type, but its intellectual value and its cultural
significance would be essentially inferior to those which the first
cross-breeds possessed. But even in this last case the mongrel product
would succumb in the mutual struggle for existence with a higher racial
group that had maintained its blood unmixed. The herd solidarity which
this mongrel race had developed through thousands of years will not be
equal to the struggle. And this is because it would lack elasticity and
constructive capacity to prevail over a race of homogeneous blood that
was mentally and culturally superior.

Therewith we may lay down the following principle as valid: every racial
mixture leads, of necessity, sooner or later to the downfall of the
mongrel product, provided the higher racial strata of this cross-breed
has not retained within itself some sort of racial homogeneity. The
danger to the mongrels ceases only when this higher stratum, which has
maintained certain standards of homogeneous breeding, ceases to be true
to its pedigree and intermingles with the mongrels.

This principle is the source of a slow but constant regeneration whereby
all the poison which has invaded the racial body is gradually eliminated
so long as there still remains a fundamental stock of pure racial
elements which resists further crossbreeding.

Such a process may set in automatically among those people where a
strong racial instinct has remained. Among such people we may count
those elements which, for some particular cause such as coercion, have
been thrown out of the normal way of reproduction along strict racial
lines. As soon as this compulsion ceases, that part of the race which
has remained intact will tend to marry with its own kind and thus impede
further intermingling. Then the mongrels recede quite naturally into the
background unless their numbers had increased so much as to be able to
withstand all serious resistance from those elements which had preserved
the purity of their race.

When men have lost their natural instincts and ignore the obligations
imposed on them by Nature, then there is no hope that Nature will
correct the loss that has been caused, until recognition of the lost
instincts has been restored. Then the task of bringing back what has
been lost will have to be accomplished. But there is serious danger that
those who have become blind once in this respect will continue more and
more to break down racial barriers and finally lose the last remnants of
what is best in them. What then remains is nothing but a uniform
mish-mash, which seems to be the dream of our fine Utopians. But that
mish-mash would soon banish all ideals from the world. Certainly a great
herd could thus be formed. One can breed a herd of animals; but from a
mixture of this kind men such as have created and founded civilizations
would not be produced. The mission of humanity might then be considered
at an end.

Those who do not wish that the earth should fall into such a condition
must realize that it is the task of the German State in particular to
see to it that the process of bastardization is brought to a stop.

Our contemporary generation of weaklings will naturally decry such a
policy and whine and complain about it as an encroachment on the most
sacred of human rights. But there is only one right that is sacrosanct
and this right is at the same time a most sacred duty. This right and
obligation are: that the purity of the racial blood should be guarded,
so that the best types of human beings may be preserved and that thus we
should render possible a more noble development of humanity itself.

A folk-State should in the first place raise matrimony from the level of
being a constant scandal to the race. The State should consecrate it as
an institution which is called upon to produce creatures made in the
likeness of the Lord and not create monsters that are a mixture of man
and ape. The protest which is put forward in the name of humanity does
not fit the mouth of a generation that makes it possible for the most
depraved degenerates to propagate themselves, thereby imposing
unspeakable suffering on their own products and their contemporaries,
while on the other hand contraceptives are permitted and sold in every
drug store and even by street hawkers, so that babies should not be born
even among the healthiest of our people. In this present State of ours,
whose function it is to be the guardian of peace and good order, our
national bourgeoisie look upon it as a crime to make procreation
impossible for syphilitics and those who suffer from tuberculosis or
other hereditary diseases, also cripples and imbeciles. But the
practical prevention of procreation among millions of our very best
people is not considered as an evil, nor does it offend against the
noble morality of this social class but rather encourages their
short-sightedness and mental lethargy. For otherwise they would at least
stir their brains to find an answer to the question of how to create
conditions for the feeding and maintaining of those future beings who
will be the healthy representatives of our nation and must also provide
the conditions on which the generation that is to follow them will have
to support itself and live.

How devoid of ideals and how ignoble is the whole contemporary system!
The fact that the churches join in committing this sin against the image
of God, even though they continue to emphasize the dignity of that
image, is quite in keeping with their present activities. They talk
about the Spirit, but they allow man, as the embodiment of the Spirit,
to degenerate to the proletarian level. Then they look on with amazement
when they realize how small is the influence of the Christian Faith in
their own country and how depraved and ungodly is this riff-raff which
is physically degenerate and therefore morally degenerate also. To
balance this state of affairs they try to convert the Hottentots and the
Zulus and the Kaffirs and to bestow on them the blessings of the Church.
While our European people, God be praised and thanked, are left to
become the victims of moral depravity, the pious missionary goes out to
Central Africa and establishes missionary stations for negroes. Finally,
sound and healthy--though primitive and backward--people will be
transformed, under the name of our 'higher civilization', into a motley
of lazy and brutalized mongrels.

It would better accord with noble human aspirations if our two Christian
denominations would cease to bother the negroes with their preaching,
which the negroes do not want and do not understand. It would be better
if they left this work alone, and if, in its stead, they tried to teach
people in Europe, kindly and seriously, that it is much more pleasing to
God if a couple that is not of healthy stock were to show loving
kindness to some poor orphan and become a father and mother to him,
rather than give life to a sickly child that will be a cause of
suffering and unhappiness to all.

In this field the People's State will have to repair the damage that
arises from the fact that the problem is at present neglected by all the
various parties concerned. It will be the task of the People's State to
make the race the centre of the life of the community. It must make sure
that the purity of the racial strain will be preserved. It must proclaim
the truth that the child is the most valuable possession a people can
have. It must see to it that only those who are healthy shall beget
children; that there is only one infamy, namely, for parents that are
ill or show hereditary defects to bring children into the world and that
in such cases it is a high honour to refrain from doing so. But, on the
other hand, it must be considered as reprehensible conduct to refrain
from giving healthy children to the nation. In this matter the State
must assert itself as the trustee of a millennial future, in face of
which the egotistic desires of the individual count for nothing and will
have to give way before the ruling of the State. In order to fulfil this
duty in a practical manner the State will have to avail itself of modern
medical discoveries. It must proclaim as unfit for procreation all those
who are inflicted with some visible hereditary disease or are the
carriers of it; and practical measures must be adopted to have such
people rendered sterile. On the other hand, provision must be made for
the normally fertile woman so that she will not be restricted in
child-bearing through the financial and economic system operating in a
political regime that looks upon the blessing of having children as a
curse to their parents. The State will have to abolish the cowardly and
even criminal indifference with which the problem of social amenities
for large families is treated, and it will have to be the supreme
protector of this greatest blessing that a people can boast of. Its
attention and care must be directed towards the child rather than the
adult.

Those who are physically and mentally unhealthy and unfit must not
perpetuate their own suffering in the bodies of their children. From the
educational point of view there is here a huge task for the People's
State to accomplish. But in a future era this work will appear greater
and more significant than the victorious wars of our present bourgeois
epoch. Through educational means the State must teach individuals that
illness is not a disgrace but an unfortunate accident which has to be
pitied, yet that it is a crime and a disgrace to make this affliction
all the worse by passing on disease and defects to innocent creatures
out of mere egotism.

And the State must also teach the people that it is an expression of a
really noble nature and that it is a humanitarian act worthy of
admiration if a person who innocently suffers from hereditary disease
refrains from having a child of his own but gives his love and affection
to some unknown child who, through its health, promises to become a
robust member of a healthy community. In accomplishing such an
educational task the State integrates its function by this activity in
the moral sphere. It must act on this principle without paying any
attention to the question of whether its conduct will be understood or
misconstrued, blamed or praised.

If for a period of only 600 years those individuals would be sterilized
who are physically degenerate or mentally diseased, humanity would not
only be delivered from an immense misfortune but also restored to a
state of general health such as we at present can hardly imagine. If the
fecundity of the healthy portion of the nation should be made a
practical matter in a conscientious and methodical way, we should have
at least the beginnings of a race from which all those germs would be
eliminated which are to-day the cause of our moral and physical
decadence. If a people and a State take this course to develop that
nucleus of the nation which is most valuable from the racial standpoint
and thus increase its fecundity, the people as a whole will subsequently
enjoy that most precious of gifts which consists in a racial quality
fashioned on truly noble lines.

To achieve this the State should first of all not leave the colonization
of newly acquired territory to a haphazard policy but should have it
carried out under the guidance of definite principles. Specially
competent committees ought to issue certificates to individuals
entitling them to engage in colonization work, and these certificates
should guarantee the racial purity of the individuals in question. In
this way frontier colonies could gradually be founded whose inhabitants
would be of the purest racial stock, and hence would possess the best
qualities of the race. Such colonies would be a valuable asset to the
whole nation. Their development would be a source of joy and confidence
and pride to each citizen of the nation, because they would contain the
pure germ which would ultimately bring about a great development of the
nation and indeed of mankind itself.

The WELTANSCHAUUNG which bases the State on the racial idea must
finally succeed in bringing about a nobler era, in which men will no
longer pay exclusive attention to breeding and rearing pedigree dogs and
horses and cats, but will endeavour to improve the breed of the human
race itself. That will be an era of silence and renunciation for one
class of people, while the others will give their gifts and make their
sacrifices joyfully.

That such a mentality may be possible cannot be denied in a world where
hundreds and thousands accept the principle of celibacy from their own
choice, without being obliged or pledged to do so by anything except an
ecclesiastical precept. Why should it not be possible to induce people
to make this sacrifice if, instead of such a precept, they were simply
told that they ought to put an end to this truly original sin of racial
corruption which is steadily being passed on from one generation to
another. And, further, they ought to be brought to realize that it is
their bounden duty to give to the Almighty Creator beings such as He
himself made to His own image.

Naturally, our wretched army of contemporary philistines will not
understand these things. They will ridicule them or shrug their round
shoulders and groan out their everlasting excuses: "Of course it is a
fine thing, but the pity is that it cannot be carried out." And we
reply: "With you indeed it cannot be done, for your world is incapable
of such an idea. You know only one anxiety and that is for your own
personal existence. You have one God, and that is your money. We do not
turn to you, however, for help, but to the great army of those who are
too poor to consider their personal existence as the highest good on
earth. They do not place their trust in money but in other gods, into
whose hands they confide their lives. Above all we turn to the vast army
of our German youth. They are coming to maturity in a great epoch, and
they will fight against the evils which were due to the laziness and
indifference of their fathers." Either the German youth will one day
create a new State founded on the racial idea or they will be the last
witnesses of the complete breakdown and death of the bourgeois world.

For if a generation suffers from defects which it recognizes and even
admits and is nevertheless quite pleased with itself, as the bourgeois
world is to-day, resorting to the cheap excuse that nothing can be done
to remedy the situation, then such a generation is doomed to disaster. A
marked characteristic of our bourgeois world is that they no longer can
deny the evil conditions that exist. They have to admit that there is
much which is foul and wrong; but they are not able to make up their
minds to fight against that evil, which would mean putting forth the
energy to mobilize the forces of 60 or 70 million people and thus oppose
this menace. They do just the opposite. When such an effort is made
elsewhere they only indulge in silly comment and try from a safe
distance to show that such an enterprise is theoretically impossible and
doomed to failure. No arguments are too stupid to be employed in the
service of their own pettifogging opinions and their knavish moral
attitude. If, for instance, a whole continent wages war against
alcoholic intoxication, so as to free a whole people from this
devastating vice, our bourgeois European does not know better than to
look sideways stupidly, shake the head in doubt and ridicule the
movement with a superior sneer--a state of mind which is effective in a
society that is so ridiculous. But when all these stupidities miss their
aim and in that part of the world this sublime and intangible attitude
is treated effectively and success attends the movement, then such
success is called into question or its importance minimized. Even moral
principles are used in this slanderous campaign against a movement which
aims at suppressing a great source of immorality.

No. We must not permit ourselves to be deceived by any illusions on this
point. Our contemporary bourgeois world has become useless for any such
noble human task because it has lost all high quality and is evil, not
so much--as I think--because evil is wished but rather because these
people are too indolent to rise up against it. That is why those
political societies which call themselves 'bourgeois parties' are
nothing but associations to promote the interests of certain
professional groups and classes. Their highest aim is to defend their
own egoistic interests as best they can. It is obvious that such a
guild, consisting of bourgeois politicians, may be considered fit for
anything rather than a struggle, especially when the adversaries are not
cautious shopkeepers but the proletarian masses, goaded on to
extremities and determined not to hesitate before deeds of violence.

If we consider it the first duty of the State to serve and promote the
general welfare of the people, by preserving and encouraging the
development of the best racial elements, the logical consequence is that
this task cannot be limited to measures concerning the birth of the
infant members of the race and nation but that the State will also have
to adopt educational means for making each citizen a worthy factor in
the further propagation of the racial stock.

Just as, in general, the racial quality is the preliminary condition for
the mental efficiency of any given human material, the training of the
individual will first of all have to be directed towards the development
of sound bodily health. For the general rule is that a strong and
healthy mind is found only in a strong and healthy body. The fact that
men of genius are sometimes not robust in health and stature, or even of
a sickly constitution, is no proof against the principle I have
enunciated. These cases are only exceptions which, as everywhere else,
prove the rule. But when the bulk of a nation is composed of physical
degenerates it is rare for a great spirit to arise from such a miserable
motley. And in any case his activities would never meet with great
success. A degenerate mob will either be incapable of understanding him
at all or their will-power is so feeble that they cannot follow the
soaring of such an eagle.

The State that is grounded on the racial principle and is alive to the
significance of this truth will first of all have to base its
educational work not on the mere imparting of knowledge but rather on
physical training and development of healthy bodies. The cultivation of
the intellectual facilities comes only in the second place. And here
again it is character which has to be developed first of all, strength
of will and decision. And the educational system ought to foster the
spirit of readiness to accept responsibilities gladly. Formal
instruction in the sciences must be considered last in importance.
Accordingly the State which is grounded on the racial idea must start
with the principle that a person whose formal education in the sciences
is relatively small but who is physically sound and robust, of a
steadfast and honest character, ready and able to make decisions and
endowed with strength of will, is a more useful member of the national
community than a weakling who is scholarly and refined. A nation
composed of learned men who are physical weaklings, hesitant about
decisions of the will, and timid pacifists, is not capable of assuring
even its own existence on this earth. In the bitter struggle which
decides the destiny of man it is very rare that an individual has
succumbed because he lacked learning. Those who fail are they who try to
ignore these consequences and are too faint-hearted about putting them
into effect. There must be a certain balance between mind and body. An
ill-kept body is not made a more beautiful sight by the indwelling of a
radiant spirit. We should not be acting justly if we were to bestow the
highest intellectual training on those who are physically deformed and
crippled, who lack decision and are weak-willed and cowardly. What has
made the Greek ideal of beauty immortal is the wonderful union of a
splendid physical beauty with nobility of mind and spirit.

Moltke's saying, that in the long run fortune favours only the
efficient, is certainly valid for the relationship between body and
spirit. A mind which is sound will generally maintain its dwelling in a
body that is sound.

Accordingly, in the People's State physical training is not a matter for
the individual alone. Nor is it a duty which first devolves on the
parents and only secondly or thirdly a public interest; but it is
necessary for the preservation of the people, who are represented and
protected by the State. As regards purely formal education the State
even now interferes with the individual's right of self-determination
and insists upon the right of the community by submitting the child to
an obligatory system of training, without paying attention to the
approval or disapproval of the parents. In a similar way and to a higher
degree the new People's State will one day make its authority prevail
over the ignorance and incomprehension of individuals in problems
appertaining to the safety of the nation. It must organize its
educational work in such a way that the bodies of the young will be
systematically trained from infancy onwards, so as to be tempered and
hardened for the demands to be made on them in later years. Above all,
the State must see to it that a generation of stay-at-homes is not
developed.

The work of education and hygiene has to begin with the young mother.
The painstaking efforts carried on for several decades have succeeded in
abolishing septic infection at childbirth and reducing puerperal fever
to a relatively small number of cases. And so it ought to be possible by
means of instructing sisters and mothers in an opportune way, to
institute a system of training the child from early infancy onwards so
that this may serve as an excellent basis for future development.

The People's State ought to allow much more time for physical training
in the school. It is nonsense to burden young brains with a load of
material of which, as experience shows, they retain only a small part,
and mostly not the essentials, but only the secondary and useless
portion; because the young mind is incapable of sifting the right kind
of learning out of all the stuff that is pumped into it. To-day, even in
the curriculum of the high schools, only two short hours in the week are
reserved for gymnastics; and worse still, it is left to the pupils to
decide whether or not they want to take part. This shows a grave
disproportion between this branch of education and purely intellectual
instruction. Not a single day should be allowed to pass in which the
young pupil does not have one hour of physical training in the morning
and one in the evening; and every kind of sport and gymnastics should be
included. There is one kind of sport which should be specially
encouraged, although many people who call themselves VO"LKISCH consider
it brutal and vulgar, and that is boxing. It is incredible how many
false notions prevail among the 'cultivated' classes. The fact that the
young man learns how to fence and then spends his time in duels is
considered quite natural and respectable. But boxing--that is brutal.
Why? There is no other sport which equals this in developing the
militant spirit, none that demands such a power of rapid decision or
which gives the body the flexibility of good steel. It is no more vulgar
when two young people settle their differences with their fists than
with sharp-pointed pieces of steel. One who is attacked and defends
himself with his fists surely does not act less manly than one who runs
off and yells for the assistance of a policeman. But, above all, a
healthy youth has to learn to endure hard knocks. This principle may
appear savage to our contemporary champions who fight only with the
weapons of the intellect. But it is not the purpose of the People's
State to educate a colony of aesthetic pacifists and physical
degenerates. This State does not consider that the human ideal is to be
found in the honourable philistine or the maidenly spinster, but in a
dareful personification of manly force and in women capable of bringing
men into the world.

Generally speaking, the function of sport is not only to make the
individual strong, alert and daring, but also to harden the body and
train it to endure an adverse environment.

If our superior class had not received such a distinguished education,
and if, on the contrary, they had learned boxing, it would never have
been possible for bullies and deserters and other such CANAILLE to carry
through a German revolution. For the success of this revolution was not
due to the courageous, energetic and audacious activities of its authors
but to the lamentable cowardice and irresolution of those who ruled the
German State at that time and were responsible for it. But our educated
leaders had received only an 'intellectual' training and thus found
themselves defenceless when their adversaries used iron bars instead of
intellectual weapons. All this could happen only because our superior
scholastic system did not train men to be real men but merely to be
civil servants, engineers, technicians, chemists, litterateurs, jurists
and, finally, professors; so that intellectualism should not die out.

Our leadership in the purely intellectual sphere has always been
brilliant, but as regards will-power in practical affairs our leadership
has been beneath criticism.

Of course education cannot make a courageous man out of one who is
temperamentally a coward. But a man who naturally possesses a certain
degree of courage will not be able to develop that quality if his
defective education has made him inferior to others from the very start
as regards physical strength and prowess. The army offers the best
example of the fact that the knowledge of one's physical ability
develops a man's courage and militant spirit. Outstanding heroes are not
the rule in the army, but the average represents men of high courage.
The excellent schooling which the German soldiers received before the
War imbued the members of the whole gigantic organism with a degree of
confidence in their own superiority such as even our opponents never
thought possible. All the immortal examples of dauntless courage and
daring which the German armies gave during the late summer and autumn of
1914, as they advanced from triumph to triumph, were the result of that
education which had been pursued systematically. During those long years
of peace before the last War men who were almost physical weaklings were
made capable of incredible deeds, and thus a self-confidence was
developed which did not fail even in the most terrible battles.

It is our German people, which broke down and were delivered over to be
kicked by the rest of the world, that had need of the power that comes
by suggestion from self-confidence. But this confidence in one's self
must be instilled into our children from their very early years. The
whole system of education and training must be directed towards
fostering in the child the conviction that he is unquestionably a match
for any- and everybody. The individual has to regain his own physical
strength and prowess in order to believe in the invincibility of the
nation to which he belongs. What has formerly led the German armies to
victory was the sum total of the confidence which each individual had in
himself, and which all of them had in those who held the positions of
command. What will restore the national strength of the German people is
the conviction that they will be able to reconquer their liberty. But
this conviction can only be the final product of an equal feeling in the
millions of individuals. And here again we must have no illusions.

The collapse of our people was overwhelming, and the efforts to put an
end to so much misery must also be overwhelming. It would be a bitter
and grave error to believe that our people could be made strong again
simply by means of our present bourgeois training in good order and
obedience. That will not suffice if we are to break up the present order
of things, which now sanctions the acknowledgment of our defeat and cast
the broken chains of our slavery in the face of our opponents. Only by a
superabundance of national energy and a passionate thirst for liberty
can we recover what has been lost.

Also the manner of clothing the young should be such as harmonizes with
this purpose. It is really lamentable to see how our young people have
fallen victims to a fashion mania which perverts the meaning of the old
adage that clothes make the man.

Especially in regard to young people clothes should take their place in
the service of education. The boy who walks about in summer-time wearing
long baggy trousers and clad up to the neck is hampered even by his
clothes in feeling any inclination towards strenuous physical exercise.
Ambition and, to speak quite frankly, even vanity must be appealed to. I
do not mean such vanity as leads people to want to wear fine clothes,
which not everybody can afford, but rather the vanity which inclines a
person towards developing a fine bodily physique. And this is something
which everybody can help to do.

This will come in useful also for later years. The young girl must
become acquainted with her sweetheart. If the beauty of the body were
not completely forced into the background to-day through our stupid
manner of dressing, it would not be possible for thousands of our girls
to be led astray by Jewish mongrels, with their repulsive crooked
waddle. It is also in the interests of the nation that those who have a
beautiful physique should be brought into the foreground, so that they
might encourage the development of a beautiful bodily form among the
people in general.

Military training is excluded among us to-day, and therewith the only
institution which in peace-times at least partly made up for the lack of
physical training in our education. Therefore what I have suggested is
all the more necessary in our time. The success of our old military
training not only showed itself in the education of the individual but
also in the influence which it exercised over the mutual relationship
between the sexes. The young girl preferred the soldier to one who was
not a soldier. The People's State must not confine its control of
physical training to the official school period, but it must demand
that, after leaving school and while the adolescent body is still
developing, the boy continues this training. For on such proper physical
development success in after-life largely depends. It is stupid to think
that the right of the State to supervise the education of its young
citizens suddenly comes to an end the moment they leave school and
recommences only with military service. This right is a duty, and as
such it must continue uninterruptedly. The present State, which does not
interest itself in developing healthy men, has criminally neglected this
duty. It leaves our contemporary youth to be corrupted on the streets
and in the brothels, instead of keeping hold of the reins and continuing
the physical training of these youths up to the time when they are grown
into healthy young men and women.

For the present it is a matter of indifference what form the State
chooses for carrying on this training. The essential matter is that it
should be developed and that the most suitable ways of doing so should
be investigated. The People's State will have to consider the physical
training of the youth after the school period just as much a public duty
as their intellectual training; and this training will have to be
carried out through public institutions. Its general lines can be a
preparation for subsequent service in the army. And then it will no
longer be the task of the army to teach the young recruit the most
elementary drill regulations. In fact the army will no longer have to
deal with recruits in the present sense of the word, but it will rather
have to transform into a soldier the youth whose bodily prowess has been
already fully trained.

In the People's State the army will no longer be obliged to teach boys
how to walk and stand erect, but it will be the final and supreme school
of patriotic education. In the army the young recruit will learn the art
of bearing arms, but at the same time he will be equipped for his other
duties in later life. And the supreme aim of military education must
always be to achieve that which was attributed to the old army as its
highest merit: namely, that through his military schooling the boy must
be transformed into a man, that he must not only learn to obey but also
acquire the fundamentals that will enable him one day to command. He
must learn to remain silent not only when he is rightly rebuked but also
when he is wrongly rebuked.

Furthermore, on the self-consciousness of his own strength and on the
basis of that ESPRIT DE CORPS which inspires him and his comrades, he
must become convinced that he belongs to a people who are invincible.

After he has completed his military training two certificates shall be
handed to the soldier. The one will be his diploma as a citizen of the
State, a juridical document which will enable him to take part in public
affairs. The second will be an attestation of his physical health, which
guarantees his fitness for marriage.

The People's State will have to direct the education of girls just as
that of boys and according to the same fundamental principles. Here
again special importance must be given to physical training, and only
after that must the importance of spiritual and mental training be taken
into account. In the education of the girl the final goal always to be
kept in mind is that she is one day to be a mother.

It is only in the second place that the People's State must busy itself
with the training of character, using all the means adapted to that
purpose.

Of course the essential traits of the individual character are already
there fundamentally before any education takes place. A person who is
fundamentally egoistic will always remain fundamentally egoistic, and
the idealist will always remain fundamentally an idealist. Besides
those, however, who already possess a definite stamp of character there
are millions of people with characters that are indefinite and vague.
The born delinquent will always remain a delinquent, but numerous people
who show only a certain tendency to commit criminal acts may become
useful members of the community if rightly trained; whereas, on the
other hand, weak and unstable characters may easily become evil elements
if the system of education has been bad.

During the War it was often lamented that our people could be so little
reticent. This failing made it very difficult to keep even highly
important secrets from the knowledge of the enemy. But let us ask this
question: What did the German educational system do in pre-War times to
teach the Germans to be discreet? Did it not very often happen in
schooldays that the little tell-tale was preferred to his companions who
kept their mouths shut? Is it not true that then, as well as now,
complaining about others was considered praiseworthy 'candour', while
silent discretion was taken as obstinacy? Has any attempt ever been made
to teach that discretion is a precious and manly virtue? No, for such
matters are trifles in the eyes of our educators. But these trifles cost
our State innumerable millions in legal expenses; for 90 per cent of all
the processes for defamation and such like charges arise only from a
lack of discretion. Remarks that are made without any sense of
responsibility are thoughtlessly repeated from mouth to mouth; and our
economic welfare is continually damaged because important methods of
production are thus disclosed. Secret preparations for our national
defence are rendered illusory because our people have never learned the
duty of silence. They repeat everything they happen to hear. In times of
war such talkative habits may even cause the loss of battles and
therefore may contribute essentially to the unsuccessful outcome of a
campaign. Here, as in other matters, we may rest assured that adults
cannot do what they have not learnt to do in youth. A teacher must not
try to discover the wild tricks of the boys by encouraging the evil
practice of tale-bearing. Young people form a sort of State among
themselves and face adults with a certain solidarity. That is quite
natural. The ties which unite the ten-year boys to one another are
stronger and more natural than their relationship to adults. A boy who
tells on his comrades commits an act of treason and shows a bent of
character which is, to speak bluntly, similar to that of a man who
commits high treason. Such a boy must not be classed as 'good',
'reliable', and so on, but rather as one with undesirable traits of
character. It may be rather convenient for the teacher to make use of
such unworthy tendencies in order to help his own work, but by such an
attitude the germ of a moral habit is sown in young hearts and may one
day show fatal consequences. It has happened more often than once that a
young informer developed into a big scoundrel.

This is only one example among many. The deliberate training of fine and
noble traits of character in our schools to-day is almost negative. In
the future much more emphasis will have to be laid on this side of our
educational work. Loyalty, self-sacrifice and discretion are virtues
which a great nation must possess. And the teaching and development of
these in the school is a more important matter than many others things
now included in the curriculum. To make the children give up habits of
complaining and whining and howling when they are hurt, etc., also
belongs to this part of their training. If the educational system fails
to teach the child at an early age to endure pain and injury without
complaining we cannot be surprised if at a later age, when the boy has
grown to be the man and is, for example, in the trenches, the postal
service is used for nothing else than to send home letters of weeping
and complaint. If our youths, during their years in the primary schools,
had had their minds crammed with a little less knowledge, and if instead
they had been better taught how to be masters of themselves, it would
have served us well during the years 1914-1918.

In its educational system the People's State will have to attach the
highest importance to the development of character, hand-in-hand with
physical training. Many more defects which our national organism shows
at present could be at least ameliorated, if not completely eliminated,
by education of the right kind.

Extreme importance should be attached to the training of will-power and
the habit of making firm decisions, also the habit of being always ready
to accept responsibilities.

In the training of our old army the principle was in vogue that any
order is always better than no order. Applied to our youth this
principle ought to take the form that any answer is better than no
answer. The fear of replying, because one fears to be wrong, ought to be
considered more humiliating than giving the wrong reply. On this simple
and primitive basis our youth should be trained to have the courage to
act.

It has been often lamented that in November and December 1918 all the
authorities lost their heads and that, from the monarch down to the last
divisional commander, nobody had sufficient mettle to make a decision on
his own responsibility. That terrible fact constitutes a grave rebuke to
our educational system; because what was then revealed on a colossal
scale at that moment of catastrophe was only what happens on a smaller
scale everywhere among us. It is the lack of will-power, and not the
lack of arms, which renders us incapable of offering any serious
resistance to-day. This defect is found everywhere among our people and
prevents decisive action wherever risks have to be taken, as if any
great action can be taken without also taking the risk. Quite
unsuspectingly, a German General found a formula for this lamentable
lack of the will-to-act when he said: "I act only when I can count on a
51 per cent probability of success." In that '51 per cent probability'
we find the very root of the German collapse. The man who demands from
Fate a guarantee of his success deliberately denies the significance of
an heroic act. For this significance consists in the very fact that, in
the definite knowledge that the situation in question is fraught with
mortal danger, an action is undertaken which may lead to success. A
patient suffering from cancer and who knows that his death is certain if
he does not undergo an operation, needs no 51 per cent probability of a
cure before facing the operation. And if the operation promises only
half of one per cent probability of success a man of courage will risk
it and would not whine if it turned out unsuccessful.

All in all, the cowardly lack of will-power and the incapacity for
making decisions are chiefly results of the erroneous education given us
in our youth. The disastrous effects of this are now widespread among
us. The crowning examples of that tragic chain of consequences are shown
in the lack of civil courage which our leading statesmen display.

The cowardice which leads nowadays to the shirking of every kind of
responsibility springs from the same roots. Here again it is the fault
of the education given our young people. This drawback permeates all
sections of public life and finds its immortal consummation in the
institutions of government that function under the parliamentary regime.

Already in the school, unfortunately, more value is placed on
'confession and full repentance' and 'contrite renouncement', on the
part of little sinners, than on a simple and frank avowal. But this
latter seems to-day, in the eyes of many an educator, to savour of a
spirit of utter incorrigibility and depravation. And, though it may seem
incredible, many a boy is told that the gallows tree is waiting for him
because he has shown certain traits which might be of inestimable value
in the nation as a whole.

Just as the People's State must one day give its attention to training
the will-power and capacity for decision among the youth, so too it must
inculcate in the hearts of the young generation from early childhood
onwards a readiness to accept responsibilities, and the courage of open
and frank avowal. If it recognizes the full significance of this
necessity, finally--after a century of educative work--it will succeed
in building up a nation which will no longer be subject to those defeats
that have contributed so disastrously to bring about our present
overthrow.

The formal imparting of knowledge, which constitutes the chief work of
our educational system to-day, will be taken over by the People's State
with only few modifications. These modifications must be made in three
branches.

First of all, the brains of the young people must not generally be
burdened with subjects of which ninety-five per cent are useless to them
and are therefore forgotten again. The curriculum of the primary and
secondary schools presents an odd mixture at the present time. In many
branches of study the subject matter to be learned has become so
enormous that only a very small fraction of it can be remembered later
on, and indeed only a very small fraction of this whole mass of
knowledge can be used. On the other hand, what is learned is
insufficient for anybody who wishes to specialize in any certain branch
for the purpose of earning his daily bread. Take, for example, the
average civil servant who has passed through the GYMNASIUM or High
School, and ask him at the age of thirty or forty how much he has
retained of the knowledge that was crammed into him with so much pains.

How much is retained from all that was stuffed into his brain? He will
certainly answer: "Well, if a mass of stuff was then taught, it was not
for the sole purpose of supplying the student with a great stock of
knowledge from which he could draw in later years, but it served to
develop the understanding, the memory, and above all it helped to
strengthen the thinking powers of the brain." That is partly true. And
yet it is somewhat dangerous to submerge a young brain in a flood of
impressions which it can hardly master and the single elements of which
it cannot discern or appreciate at their just value. It is mostly the
essential part of this knowledge, and not the accidental, that is
forgotten and sacrificed. Thus the principal purpose of this copious
instruction is frustrated, for that purpose cannot be to make the brain
capable of learning by simply offering it an enormous and varied amount
of subjects for acquisition, but rather to furnish the individual with
that stock of knowledge which he will need in later life and which he
can use for the good of the community. This aim, however, is rendered
illusory if, because of the superabundance of subjects that have been
crammed into his head in childhood, a person is able to remember
nothing, or at least not the essential portion, of all this in later
life. There is no reason why millions of people should learn two or
three languages during the school years, when only a very small fraction
will have the opportunity to use these languages in later life and when
most of them will therefore forget those languages completely. To take
an instance: Out of 100,000 students who learn French there are probably
not 2,000 who will be in a position to make use of this accomplishment
in later life, while 98,000 will never have a chance to utilize in
practice what they have learned in youth. They have spent thousands of
hours on a subject which will afterwards be without any value or
importance to them. The argument that these matters form part of the
general process of educating the mind is invalid. It would be sound if
all these people were able to use this learning in after life. But, as
the situation stands, 98,000 are tortured to no purpose and waste their
valuable time, only for the sake of the 2,000 to whom the language will
be of any use.

In the case of that language which I have chosen as an example it cannot
be said that the learning of it educates the student in logical thinking
or sharpens his mental acumen, as the learning of Latin, for instance,
might be said to do. It would therefore be much better to teach young
students only the general outline, or, better, the inner structure of
such a language: that is to say, to allow them to discern the
characteristic features of the language, or perhaps to make them
acquainted with the rudiments of its grammar, its pronunciation, its
syntax, style, etc. That would be sufficient for average students,
because it would provide a clearer view of the whole and could be more
easily remembered. And it would be more practical than the present-day
attempt to cram into their heads a detailed knowledge of the whole
language, which they can never master and which they will readily
forget. If this method were adopted, then we should avoid the danger
that, out of the superabundance of matter taught, only some fragments
will remain in the memory; for the youth would then have to learn what
is worth while, and the selection between the useful and the useless
would thus have been made beforehand.

As regards the majority of students the knowledge and understanding of
the rudiments of a language would be quite sufficient for the rest of
their lives. And those who really do need this language subsequently
would thus have a foundation on which to start, should they choose to
make a more thorough study of it.

By adopting such a curriculum the necessary amount of time would be
gained for physical exercises as well as for a more intense training in
the various educational fields that have already been mentioned.

A reform of particular importance is that which ought to take place in
the present methods of teaching history. Scarcely any other people are
made to study as much of history as the Germans, and scarcely any other
people make such a bad use of their historical knowledge. If politics
means history in the making, then our way of teaching history stands
condemned by the way we have conducted our politics. But there would be
no point in bewailing the lamentable results of our political conduct
unless one is now determined to give our people a better political
education. In 99 out of 100 cases the results of our present teaching of
history are deplorable. Usually only a few dates, years of birth and
names, remain in the memory, while a knowledge of the main and clearly
defined lines of historical development is completely lacking. The
essential features which are of real significance are not taught. It is
left to the more or less bright intelligence of the individual to
discover the inner motivating urge amid the mass of dates and
chronological succession of events.

You may object as strongly as you like to this unpleasant statement. But
read with attention the speeches which our parliamentarians make during
one session alone on political problems and on questions of foreign
policy in particular. Remember that those gentlemen are, or claim to be,
the elite of the German nation and that at least a great number of them
have sat on the benches of our secondary schools and that many of them
have passed through our universities. Then you will realize how
defective the historical education of these people has been. If these
gentlemen had never studied history at all but had possessed a sound
instinct for public affairs, things would have gone better, and the
nation would have benefited greatly thereby.

The subject matter of our historical teaching must be curtailed. The
chief value of that teaching is to make the principal lines of
historical development understood. The more our historical teaching is
limited to this task, the more we may hope that it will turn out
subsequently to be of advantage to the individual and, through the
individual, to the community as a whole. For history must not be studied
merely with a view to knowing what happened in the past but as a guide
for the future, and to teach us what policy would be the best to follow
for the preservation of our own people. That is the real end; and the
teaching of history is only a means to attain this end. But here again
the means has superseded the end in our contemporary education. The goal
is completely forgotten. Do not reply that a profound study of history
demands a detailed knowledge of all these dates because otherwise we
could not fix the great lines of development. That task belongs to the
professional historians. But the average man is not a professor of
history. For him history has only one mission and that is to provide him
with such an amount of historical knowledge as is necessary in order to
enable him to form an independent opinion on the political affairs of
his own country. The man who wants to become a professor of history can
devote himself to all the details later on. Naturally he will have to
occupy himself even with the smallest details. Of course our present
teaching of history is not adequate to all this. Its scope is too vast
for the average student and too limited for the student who wishes to be
an historical expert.

Finally, it is the business of the People's State to arrange for the
writing of a world history in which the race problem will occupy a
dominant position.

To sum up: The People's State must reconstruct our system of general
instruction in such a way that it will embrace only what is essential.
Beyond this it will have to make provision for a more advanced teaching
in the various subjects for those who want to specialize in them. It
will suffice for the average individual to be acquainted with the
fundamentals of the various subjects to serve as the basis of what may
be called an all-round education. He ought to study exhaustively and in
detail only that subject in which he intends to work during the rest of
his life. A general instruction in all subjects should be obligatory,
and specialization should be left to the choice of the individual.

In this way the scholastic programme would be shortened, and thus
several school hours would be gained which could be utilized for
physical training and character training, in will-power, the capacity
for making practical judgments, decisions, etc.

The little account taken by our school training to-day, especially in
the secondary schools, of the callings that have to be followed in after
life is demonstrated by the fact that men who are destined for the same
calling in life are educated in three different kinds of schools. What
is of decisive importance is general education only and not the special
teaching. When special knowledge is needed it cannot be given in the
curriculum of our secondary schools as they stand to-day.

Therefore the People's State will one day have to abolish such
half-measures.

The second modification in the curriculum which the People's State will
have to make is the following:

It is a characteristic of our materialistic epoch that our scientific
education shows a growing emphasis on what is real and practical: such
subjects, for instance, as applied mathematics, physics, chemistry, etc.
Of course they are necessary in an age that is dominated by industrial
technology and chemistry, and where everyday life shows at least the
external manifestations of these. But it is a perilous thing to base the
general culture of a nation on the knowledge of these subjects. On the
contrary, that general culture ought always to be directed towards
ideals. It ought to be founded on the humanist disciplines and should
aim at giving only the ground work of further specialized instruction in
the various practical sciences. Otherwise we should sacrifice those
forces that are more important for the preservation of the nation than
any technical knowledge. In the historical department the study of
ancient history should not be omitted. Roman history, along general
lines, is and will remain the best teacher, not only for our own time
but also for the future. And the ideal of Hellenic culture should be
preserved for us in all its marvellous beauty. The differences between
the various peoples should not prevent us from recognizing the community
of race which unites them on a higher plane. The conflict of our times
is one that is being waged around great objectives. A civilization is
fighting for its existence. It is a civilization that is the product of
thousands of years of historical development, and the Greek as well as
the German forms part of it.

A clear-cut division must be made between general culture and the
special branches. To-day the latter threaten more and more to devote
themselves exclusively to the service of Mammon. To counterbalance this
tendency, general culture should be preserved, at least in its ideal
forms. The principle should be repeatedly emphasized, that industrial
and technical progress, trade and commerce, can flourish only so long as
a folk community exists whose general system of thought is inspired by
ideals, since that is the preliminary condition for a flourishing
development of the enterprises I have spoken of. That condition is not
created by a spirit of materialist egotism but by a spirit of
self-denial and the joy of giving one's self in the service of others.

The system of education which prevails to-day sees its principal object
in pumping into young people that knowledge which will help them to make
their way in life. This principle is expressed in the following terms:
"The young man must one day become a useful member of human society." By
that phrase they mean the ability to gain an honest daily livelihood.
The superficial training in the duties of good citizenship, which he
acquires merely as an accidental thing, has very weak foundations. For
in itself the State represents only a form, and therefore it is
difficult to train people to look upon this form as the ideal which they
will have to serve and towards which they must feel responsible. A form
can be too easily broken. But, as we have seen, the idea which people
have of the State to-day does not represent anything clearly defined.
Therefore, there is nothing but the usual stereotyped 'patriotic'
training. In the old Germany the greatest emphasis was placed on the
divine right of the small and even the smallest potentates. The way in
which this divine right was formulated and presented was never very
clever and often very stupid. Because of the large numbers of those
small potentates, it was impossible to give adequate biographical
accounts of the really great personalities that shed their lustre on the
history of the German people. The result was that the broad masses
received a very inadequate knowledge of German history. Here, too, the
great lines of development were missing.

It is evident that in such a way no real national enthusiasm could be
aroused. Our educational system proved incapable of selecting from the
general mass of our historical personages the names of a few
personalities which the German people could be proud to look upon as
their own. Thus the whole nation might have been united by the ties of a
common knowledge of this common heritage. The really important figures
in German history were not presented to the present generation. The
attention of the whole nation was not concentrated on them for the
purpose of awakening a common national spirit. From the various subjects
that were taught, those who had charge of our training seemed incapable
of selecting what redounded most to the national honour and lifting that
above the common objective level, in order to inflame the national pride
in the light of such brilliant examples. At that time such a course
would have been looked upon as rank chauvinism, which did not then have
a very pleasant savour. Pettifogging dynastic patriotism was more
acceptable and more easily tolerated than the glowing fire of a supreme
national pride. The former could be always pressed into service, whereas
the latter might one day become a dominating force. Monarchist
patriotism terminated in Associations of Veterans, whereas passionate
national patriotism might have opened a road which would be difficult to
determine. This national passion is like a highly tempered thoroughbred
who is discriminate about the sort of rider he will tolerate in the
saddle. No wonder that most people preferred to shirk such a danger.
Nobody seemed to think it possible that one day a war might come which
would put the mettle of this kind of patriotism to the test, in
artillery bombardment and waves of attacks with poison gas. But when it
did come our lack of this patriotic passion was avenged in a terrible
way. None were very enthusiastic about dying for their imperial and
royal sovereigns; while on the other hand the 'Nation' was not
recognized by the greater number of the soldiers.

Since the revolution broke out in Germany and the monarchist patriotism
was therefore extinguished, the purpose of teaching history was nothing
more than to add to the stock of objective knowledge. The present State
has no use for patriotic enthusiasm; but it will never obtain what it
really desires. For if dynastic patriotism failed to produce a supreme
power of resistance at a time when the principle of nationalism
dominated, it will be still less possible to arouse republican
enthusiasm. There can be no doubt that the German people would not have
stood on the field of battle for four and a half years to fight under
the battle slogan 'For the Republic,' and least of all those who created
this grand institution.

In reality this Republic has been allowed to exist undisturbed only by
grace of its readiness and its promise to all and sundry, to pay tribute
and reparations to the stranger and to put its signature to any kind of
territorial renunciation. The rest of the world finds it sympathetic,
just as a weakling is always more pleasing to those who want to bend him
to their own uses than is a man who is made of harder metal. But the
fact that the enemy likes this form of government is the worst kind of
condemnation. They love the German Republic and tolerate its existence
because no better instrument could be found which would help them to
keep our people in slavery. It is to this fact alone that this
magnanimous institution owes its survival. And that is why it can
renounce any REAL system of national education and can feel satisfied
when the heroes of the REICH banner shout their hurrahs, but in reality
these same heroes would scamper away like rabbits if called upon to
defend that banner with their blood.

The People's State will have to fight for its existence. It will not
gain or secure this existence by signing documents like that of the
Dawes Plan. But for its existence and defence it will need precisely
those things which our present system believes can be repudiated. The
more worthy its form and its inner national being. the greater will be
the envy and opposition of its adversaries. The best defence will not be
in the arms it possesses but in its citizens. Bastions of fortresses
will not save it, but the living wall of its men and women, filled with
an ardent love for their country and a passionate spirit of national
patriotism.

Therefore the third point which will have to be considered in relation
to our educational system is the following:

The People's State must realize that the sciences may also be made a
means of promoting a spirit of pride in the nation. Not only the history
of the world but the history of civilization as a whole must be taught
in the light of this principle. An inventor must appear great not only
as an inventor but also, and even more so, as a member of the nation.
The admiration aroused by the contemplation of a great achievement must
be transformed into a feeling of pride and satisfaction that a man of
one's own race has been chosen to accomplish it. But out of the
abundance of great names in German history the greatest will have to be
selected and presented to our young generation in such a way as to
become solid pillars of strength to support the national spirit.

The subject matter ought to be systematically organized from the
standpoint of this principle. And the teaching should be so orientated
that the boy or girl, after leaving school, will not be a semi-pacifist,
a democrat or of something else of that kind, but a whole-hearted
German. So that this national feeling be sincere from the very
beginning, and not a mere pretence, the following fundamental and
inflexible principle should be impressed on the young brain while it is
yet malleable: The man who loves his nation can prove the sincerity of
this sentiment only by being ready to make sacrifices for the nation's
welfare. There is no such thing as a national sentiment which is
directed towards personal interests. And there is no such thing as a
nationalism that embraces only certain classes. Hurrahing proves nothing
and does not confer the right to call oneself national if behind that
shout there is no sincere preoccupation for the conservation of the
nation's well-being. One can be proud of one's people only if there is
no class left of which one need to be ashamed. When one half of a nation
is sunk in misery and worn out by hard distress, or even depraved or
degenerate, that nation presents such an unattractive picture that
nobody can feel proud to belong to it. It is only when a nation is sound
in all its members, physically and morally, that the joy of belonging to
it can properly be intensified to the supreme feeling which we call
national pride. But this pride, in its highest form, can be felt only by
those who know the greatness of their nation.

The spirit of nationalism and a feeling for social justice must be fused
into one sentiment in the hearts of the youth. Then a day will come when
a nation of citizens will arise which will be welded together through a
common love and a common pride that shall be invincible and
indestructible for ever.

The dread of chauvinism, which is a symptom of our time, is a sign of
its impotence. Since our epoch not only lacks everything in the nature
of exuberant energy but even finds such a manifestation disagreeable,
fate will never elect it for the accomplishment of any great deeds. For
the greatest changes that have taken place on this earth would have been
inconceivable if they had not been inspired by ardent and even
hysterical passions, but only by the bourgeois virtues of peacefulness
and order.

One thing is certain: our world is facing a great revolution. The only
question is whether the outcome will be propitious for the Aryan portion
of mankind or whether the everlasting Jew will profit by it.

By educating the young generation along the right lines, the People's
State will have to see to it that a generation of mankind is formed
which will be adequate to this supreme combat that will decide the
destinies of the world.

That nation will conquer which will be the first to take this road.

The whole organization of education and training which the People's
State is to build up must take as its crowning task the work of
instilling into the hearts and brains of the youth entrusted to it the
racial instinct and understanding of the racial idea. No boy or girl
must leave school without having attained a clear insight into the
meaning of racial purity and the importance of maintaining the racial
blood unadulterated. Thus the first indispensable condition for the
preservation of our race will have been established and thus the future
cultural progress of our people will be assured.

For in the last analysis all physical and mental training would be in
vain unless it served an entity which is ready and determined to carry
on its own existence and maintain its own characteristic qualities.

If it were otherwise, something would result which we Germans have cause
to regret already, without perhaps having hitherto recognized the extent
of the tragic calamity. We should be doomed to remain also in the future
only manure for civilization. And that not in the banal sense of the
contemporary bourgeois mind, which sees in a lost fellow member of our
people only a lost citizen, but in a sense which we should have
painfully to recognize: namely, that our racial blood would be destined
to disappear. By continually mixing with other races we might lift them
from their former lower level of civilization to a higher grade; but we
ourselves should descend for ever from the heights we had reached.

Finally, from the racial standpoint this training also must find its
culmination in the military service. The term of military service is to
be a final stage of the normal training which the average German
receives.

While the People's State attaches the greatest importance to physical
and mental training, it has also to consider, and no less importantly,
the task of selecting men for the service of the State itself. This
important matter is passed over lightly at the present time. Generally
the children of parents who are for the time being in higher situations
are in their turn considered worthy of a higher education. Here talent
plays a subordinate part. But talent can be estimated only relatively.
Though in general culture he may be inferior to the city child, a
peasant boy may be more talented than the son of a family that has
occupied high positions through many generations. But the superior
culture of the city child has in itself nothing to do with a greater or
lesser degree of talent; for this culture has its roots in the more
copious mass of impressions which arise from the more varied education
and the surroundings among which this child lives. If the intelligent
son of peasant parents were educated from childhood in similar
surroundings his intellectual accomplishments would be quite otherwise.
In our day there is only one sphere where the family in which a person
has been born means less than his innate gifts. That is the sphere of
art. Here, where a person cannot just 'learn,' but must have innate
gifts that later on may undergo a more or less happy development (in the
sense of a wise development of what is already there), money and
parental property are of no account. This is a good proof that genius is
not necessarily connected with the higher social strata or with wealth.
Not rarely the greatest artists come from poor families. And many a boy
from the country village has eventually become a celebrated master.

It does not say much for the mental acumen of our time that advantage is
not taken of this truth for the sake of our whole intellectual life. The
opinion is advanced that this principle, though undoubtedly valid in the
field of art, has not the same validity in regard to what are called the
applied sciences. It is true that a man can be trained to a certain
amount of mechanical dexterity, just as a poodle can be taught
incredible tricks by a clever master. But such training does not bring
the animal to use his intelligence in order to carry out those tricks.
And the same holds good in regard to man. It is possible to teach men,
irrespective of talent or no talent, to go through certain scientific
exercises, but in such cases the results are quite as inanimate and
mechanical as in the case of the animal. It would even be possible to
force a person of mediocre intelligence, by means of a severe course of
intellectual drilling, to acquire more than the average amount of
knowledge; but that knowledge would remain sterile. The result would be
a man who might be a walking dictionary of knowledge but who will fail
miserably on every critical occasion in life and at every juncture where
vital decisions have to be taken. Such people need to be drilled
specially for every new and even most insignificant task and will never
be capable of contributing in the least to the general progress of
mankind. Knowledge that is merely drilled into people can at best
qualify them to fill government positions under our present regime.

It goes without saying that, among the sum total of individuals who make
up a nation, gifted people are always to be found in every sphere of
life. It is also quite natural that the value of knowledge will be all
the greater the more vitally the dead mass of learning is animated by
the innate talent of the individual who possesses it. Creative work in
this field can be done only through the marriage of knowledge and
talent.

One example will suffice to show how much our contemporary world is at
fault in this matter. From time to time our illustrated papers publish,
for the edification of the German philistine, the news that in some
quarter or other of the globe, and for the first time in that locality,
a Negro has become a lawyer, a teacher, a pastor, even a grand opera
tenor or something else of that kind. While the bourgeois blockhead
stares with amazed admiration at the notice that tells him how
marvellous are the achievements of our modern educational technique, the
more cunning Jew sees in this fact a new proof to be utilized for the
theory with which he wants to infect the public, namely that all men are
equal. It does not dawn on the murky bourgeois mind that the fact which
is published for him is a sin against reason itself, that it is an act
of criminal insanity to train a being who is only an anthropoid by birth
until the pretence can be made that he has been turned into a lawyer;
while, on the other hand, millions who belong to the most civilized
races have to remain in positions which are unworthy of their cultural
level. The bourgeois mind does not realize that it is a sin against the
will of the eternal Creator to allow hundreds of thousands of highly
gifted people to remain floundering in the swamp of proletarian misery
while Hottentots and Zulus are drilled to fill positions in the
intellectual professions. For here we have the product only of a
drilling technique, just as in the case of the performing dog. If the
same amount of care and effort were applied among intelligent races each
individual would become a thousand times more capable in such matters.

This state of affairs would become intolerable if a day should arrive
when it no longer refers to exceptional cases. But the situation is
already intolerable where talent and natural gifts are not taken as
decisive factors in qualifying for the right to a higher education. It
is indeed intolerable to think that year after year hundreds of
thousands of young people without a single vestige of talent are deemed
worthy of a higher education, while other hundreds of thousands who
possess high natural gifts have to go without any sort of higher
schooling at all. The practical loss thus caused to the nation is
incalculable. If the number of important discoveries which have been
made in America has grown considerably in recent years one of the
reasons is that the number of gifted persons belonging to the lowest
social classes who were given a higher education in that country is
proportionately much larger than in Europe.

A stock of knowledge packed into the brain will not suffice for the
making of discoveries. What counts here is only that knowledge which is
illuminated by natural talent. But with us at the present time no value
is placed on such gifts. Only good school reports count.

Here is another educative work that is waiting for the People's State to
do. It will not be its task to assure a dominant influence to a certain
social class already existing, but it will be its duty to attract the
most competent brains in the total mass of the nation and promote them
to place and honour. It is not merely the duty of the State to give to
the average child a certain definite education in the primary school,
but it is also its duty to open the road to talent in the proper
direction. And above all, it must open the doors of the higher schools
under the State to talent of every sort, no matter in what social class
it may appear. This is an imperative necessity; for thus alone will it
be possible to develop a talented body of public leaders from the class
which represents learning that in itself is only a dead mass.

There is still another reason why the State should provide for this
situation. Our intellectual class, particularly in Germany, is so shut
up in itself and fossilized that it lacks living contact with the
classes beneath it. Two evil consequences result from this: First, the
intellectual class neither understands nor sympathizes with the broad
masses. It has been so long cut off from all connection with them that
it cannot now have the necessary psychological ties that would enable it
to understand them. It has become estranged from the people. Secondly,
the intellectual class lacks the necessary will-power; for this faculty
is always weaker in cultivated circles, which live in seclusion, than
among the primitive masses of the people. God knows we Germans have
never been lacking in abundant scientific culture, but we have always
had a considerable lack of will-power and the capacity for making
decisions. For example, the more 'intellectual' our statesmen have been
the more lacking they have been, for the most part, in practical
achievement. Our political preparation and our technical equipment for
the world war were defective, certainly not because the brains governing
the nation were too little educated, but because the men who directed
our public affairs were over-educated, filled to over-flowing with
knowledge and intelligence, yet without any sound instinct and simply
without energy, or any spirit of daring. It was our nation's tragedy to
have to fight for its existence under a Chancellor who was a
dillydallying philosopher. If instead of a Bethmann von Hollweg we had
had a rough man of the people as our leader the heroic blood of the
common grenadier would not have been shed in vain. The exaggeratedly
intellectual material out of which our leaders were made proved to be
the best ally of the scoundrels who carried out the November revolution.
These intellectuals safeguarded the national wealth in a miserly
fashion, instead of launching it forth and risking it, and thus they set
the conditions on which the others won success.

Here the Catholic Church presents an instructive example. Clerical
celibacy forces the Church to recruit its priests not from their own
ranks but progressively from the masses of the people. Yet there are not
many who recognize the significance of celibacy in this relation. But
therein lies the cause of the inexhaustible vigour which characterizes
that ancient institution. For by thus unceasingly recruiting the
ecclesiastical dignitaries from the lower classes of the people, the
Church is enabled not only to maintain the contact of instinctive
understanding with the masses of the population but also to assure
itself of always being able to draw upon that fund of energy which is
present in this form only among the popular masses. Hence the surprising
youthfulness of that gigantic organism, its mental flexibility and its
iron will-power.

It will be the task of the Peoples' State so to organize and administer
its educational system that the existing intellectual class will be
constantly furnished with a supply of fresh blood from beneath. From the
bulk of the nation the State must sift out with careful scrutiny those
persons who are endowed with natural talents and see that they are
employed in the service of the community. For neither the State itself
nor the various departments of State exist to furnish revenues for
members of a special class, but to fulfil the tasks allotted to them.
This will be possible, however, only if the State trains individuals
specially for these offices. Such individuals must have the necessary
fundamental capabilities and will-power. The principle does not hold
true only in regard to the civil service but also in regard to all those
who are to take part in the intellectual and moral leadership of the
people, no matter in what sphere they may be employed. The greatness of
a people is partly dependent on the condition that it must succeed in
training the best brains for those branches of the public service for
which they show a special natural aptitude and in placing them in the
offices where they can do their best work for the good of the community.
If two nations of equal strength and quality engage in a mutual conflict
that nation will come out victorious which has entrusted its
intellectual and moral leadership to its best talents and that nation
will go under whose government represents only a common food trough for
privileged groups or classes and where the inner talents of its
individual members are not availed of.

Of course such a reform seems impossible in the world as it is to-day.
The objection will at once be raised, that it is too much to expect from
the favourite son of a highly-placed civil servant, for instance, that
he shall work with his hands simply because somebody else whose parents
belong to the working-class seems more capable for a job in the civil
service. That argument may be valid as long as manual work is looked
upon in the same way as it is looked upon to-day. Hence the Peoples'
State will have to take up an attitude towards the appreciation of
manual labour which will be fundamentally different from that which now
exists. If necessary, it will have to organize a persistent system of
teaching which will aim at abolishing the present-day stupid habit of
looking down on physical labour as an occupation to be ashamed of.

The individual will have to be valued, not by the class of work he does
but by the way in which he does it and by its usefulness to the
community. This statement may sound monstrous in an epoch when the most
brainless columnist on a newspaper staff is more esteemed than the most
expert mechanic, merely because the former pushes a pen. But, as I have
said, this false valuation does not correspond to the nature of things.
It has been artificially introduced, and there was a time when it did
not exist at all. The present unnatural state of affairs is one of those
general morbid phenomena that have arisen from our materialistic epoch.
Fundamentally every kind of work has a double value; the one material,
the other ideal. The material value depends on the practical importance
of the work to the life of the community. The greater the number of the
population who benefit from the work, directly or indirectly, the higher
will be its material value. This evaluation is expressed in the material
recompense which the individual receives for his labour. In
contradistinction to this purely material value there is the ideal
value. Here the work performed is not judged by its material importance
but by the degree to which it answers a necessity. Certainly the
material utility of an invention may be greater than that of the service
rendered by an everyday workman; but it is also certain that the
community needs each of those small daily services just as much as the
greater services. From the material point of view a distinction can be
made in the evaluation of different kinds of work according to their
utility to the community, and this distinction is expressed by the
differentiation in the scale of recompense; but on the ideal or abstract
plans all workmen become equal the moment each strives to do his best in
his own field, no matter what that field may be. It is on this that a
man's value must be estimated, and not on the amount of recompense
received.

In a reasonably directed State care must be taken that each individual
is given the kind of work which corresponds to his capabilities. In
other words, people will be trained for the positions indicated by their
natural endowments; but these endowments or faculties are innate and
cannot be acquired by any amount of training, being a gift from Nature
and not merited by men. Therefore, the way in which men are generally
esteemed by their fellow-citizens must not be according to the kind of
work they do, because that has been more or less assigned to the
individual. Seeing that the kind of work in which the individual is
employed is to be accounted to his inborn gifts and the resultant
training which he has received from the community, he will have to be
judged by the way in which he performs this work entrusted to him by the
community. For the work which the individual performs is not the purpose
of his existence, but only a means. His real purpose in life is to
better himself and raise himself to a higher level as a human being; but
this he can only do in and through the community whose cultural life he
shares. And this community must always exist on the foundations on which
the State is based. He ought to contribute to the conservation of those
foundations. Nature determines the form of this contribution. It is the
duty of the individual to return to the community, zealously and
honestly, what the community has given him. He who does this deserves
the highest respect and esteem. Material remuneration may be given to
him whose work has a corresponding utility for the community; but the
ideal recompense must lie in the esteem to which everybody has a claim
who serves his people with whatever powers Nature has bestowed upon him
and which have been developed by the training he has received from the
national community. Then it will no longer be dishonourable to be an
honest craftsman; but it will be a cause of disgrace to be an
inefficient State official, wasting God's day and filching daily bread
from an honest public. Then it will be looked upon as quite natural that
positions should not be given to persons who of their very nature are
incapable of filling them.

Furthermore, this personal efficiency will be the sole criterion of the
right to take part on an equal juridical footing in general civil
affairs.

The present epoch is working out its own ruin. It introduces universal
suffrage, chatters about equal rights but can find no foundation for
this equality. It considers the material wage as the expression of a
man's value and thus destroys the basis of the noblest kind of equality
that can exist. For equality cannot and does not depend on the work a
man does, but only on the manner in which each one does the particular
work allotted to him. Thus alone will mere natural chance be set aside
in determining the work of a man and thus only does the individual
become the artificer of his own social worth.

At the present time, when whole groups of people estimate each other's
value only by the size of the salaries which they respectively receive,
there will be no understanding of all this. But that is no reason why we
should cease to champion those ideas. Quite the opposite: in an epoch
which is inwardly diseased and decaying anyone who would heal it must
have the courage first to lay bare the real roots of the disease. And
the National Socialist Movement must take that duty on its shoulders. It
will have to lift its voice above the heads of the small bourgeoisie and
rally together and co-ordinate all those popular forces which are ready
to become the protagonists of a new WELTANSCHAUUNG.



Of course the objection will be made that in general it is difficult to
differentiate between the material and ideal values of work and that the
lower prestige which is attached to physical labour is due to the fact
that smaller wages are paid for that kind of work. It will be said that
the lower wage is in its turn the reason why the manual worker has less
chance to participate in the culture of the nation; so that the ideal
side of human culture is less open to him because it has nothing to do
with his daily activities. It may be added that the reluctance to do
physical work is justified by the fact that, on account of the small
income, the cultural level of manual labourers must naturally be low,
and that this in turn is a justification for the lower estimation in
which manual labour is generally held.

There is quite a good deal of truth in all this. But that is the very
reason why we ought to see that in the future there should not be such a
wide difference in the scale of remuneration. Don't say that under such
conditions poorer work would be done. It would be the saddest symptom of
decadence if finer intellectual work could be obtained only through the
stimulus of higher payment. If that point of view had ruled the world up
to now humanity would never have acquired its greatest scientific and
cultural heritage. For all the greatest inventions, the greatest
discoveries, the most profoundly revolutionary scientific work, and the
most magnificent monuments of human culture, were never given to the
world under the impulse or compulsion of money. Quite the contrary: not
rarely was their origin associated with a renunciation of the worldly
pleasures that wealth can purchase.

It may be that money has become the one power that governs life to-day.
Yet a time will come when men will again bow to higher gods. Much that
we have to-day owes its existence to the desire for money and property;
but there is very little among all this which would leave the world
poorer by its lack.

It is also one of the aims before our movement to hold out the prospect
of a time when the individual will be given what he needs for the
purposes of his life and it will be a time in which, on the other hand,
the principle will be upheld that man does not live for material
enjoyment alone. This principle will find expression in a wiser scale of
wages and salaries which will enable everyone, including the humblest
workman who fulfils his duties conscientiously, to live an honourable
and decent life both as a man and as a citizen. Let it not be said that
this is merely a visionary ideal, that this world would never tolerate
it in practice and that of itself it is impossible to attain.

Even we are not so simple as to believe that there will ever be an age
in which there will be no drawbacks. But that does not release us from
the obligation to fight for the removal of the defects which we have
recognized, to overcome the shortcomings and to strive towards the
ideal. In any case the hard reality of the facts to be faced will always
place only too many limits to our aspirations. But that is precisely why
man must strive again and again to serve the ultimate aim and no
failures must induce him to renounce his intentions, just as we cannot
spurn the sway of justice because mistakes creep into the administration
of the law, and just as we cannot despise medical science because, in
spite of it, there will always be diseases.

Man should take care not to have too low an estimate of the power of an
ideal. If there are some who may feel disheartened over the present
conditions, and if they happen to have served as soldiers, I would
remind them of the time when their heroism was the most convincing
example of the power inherent in ideal motives. It was not preoccupation
about their daily bread that led men to sacrifice their lives, but the
love of their country, the faith which they had in its greatness, and an
all round feeling for the honour of the nation. Only after the German
people had become estranged from these ideals, to follow the material
promises offered by the Revolution, only after they threw away their
arms to take up the rucksack, only then--instead of entering an earthly
paradise--did they sink into the purgatory of universal contempt and at
the same time universal want.

That is why we must face the calculators of the materialist Republic
with faith in an idealist REICH.




CHAPTER III



CITIZENS AND SUBJECTS OF THE STATE


The institution that is now erroneously called the State generally
classifies people only into two groups: citizens and aliens. Citizens
are all those who possess full civic rights, either by reason of their
birth or by an act of naturalization. Aliens are those who enjoy the
same rights in some other State. Between these two categories there are
certain beings who resemble a sort of meteoric phenomena. They are
people who have no citizenship in any State and consequently no civic
rights anywhere.

In most cases nowadays a person acquires civic rights by being born
within the frontiers of a State. The race or nationality to which he may
belong plays no role whatsoever. The child of a Negro who once lived in
one of the German protectorates and now takes up his residence in
Germany automatically becomes a 'German Citizen' in the eyes of the
world. In the same way the child of any Jew, Pole, African or Asian may
automatically become a German Citizen.

Besides naturalization that is acquired through the fact of having been
born within the confines of a State there exists another kind of
naturalization which can be acquired later. This process is subject to
various preliminary requirements. For example one condition is that, if
possible, the applicant must not be a burglar or a common street thug.
It is required of him that his political attitude is not such as to give
cause for uneasiness; in other words he must be a harmless simpleton in
politics. It is required that he shall not be a burden to the State of
which he wishes to become a citizen. In this realistic epoch of ours
this last condition naturally only means that he must not be a financial
burden. If the affairs of the candidate are such that it appears likely
he will turn out to be a good taxpayer, that is a very important
consideration and will help him to obtain civic rights all the more
rapidly.

The question of race plays no part at all.

The whole process of acquiring civic rights is not very different from
that of being admitted to membership of an automobile club, for
instance. A person files his application. It is examined. It is
sanctioned. And one day the man receives a card which informs him that
he has become a citizen. The information is given in an amusing way. An
applicant who has hitherto been a Zulu or Kaffir is told: "By these
presents you are now become a German Citizen."

The President of the State can perform this piece of magic. What God
Himself could not do is achieved by some Theophrastus Paracelsus (Note 16)
of a civil servant through a mere twirl of the hand. Nothing but a stroke
of the pen, and a Mongolian slave is forthwith turned into a real
German. Not only is no question asked regarding the race to which the
new citizen belongs; even the matter of his physical health is not
inquired into. His flesh may be corrupted with syphilis; but he will
still be welcome in the State as it exists to-day so long as he may not
become a financial burden or a political danger.

[Note 16. The last and most famous of the medieval alchemists. He was born
at Basleabout the year 1490 and died at Salzburg in 1541. He taught that
all metals could be transmuted through the action of one primary element
common to them all. This element he called ALCAHEST. If it could be found
it would proveto be at once the philosopher's stone, the universal
medicine and their resistible solvent. There are many aspects of his
teaching which are now looked upon as by no means so fantastic as they
were considered in his own time.]

In this way, year after year, those organisms which we call States take
up poisonous matter which they can hardly ever overcome.

Another point of distinction between a citizen and an alien is that the
former is admitted to all public offices, that he may possibly have to
do military service and that in return he is permitted to take a passive
or active part at public elections. Those are his chief privileges. For
in regard to personal rights and personal liberty the alien enjoys the
same amount of protection as the citizen, and frequently even more.
Anyhow that is how it happens in our present German Republic.

I realize fully that nobody likes to hear these things. But it would be
difficult to find anything more illogical or more insane than our
contemporary laws in regard to State citizenship.

At present there exists one State which manifests at least some modest
attempts that show a better appreciation of how things ought to be done
in this matter. It is not, however, in our model German Republic but in
the U.S.A. that efforts are made to conform at least partly to the
counsels of commonsense. By refusing immigrants to enter there if they
are in a bad state of health, and by excluding certain races from the
right to become naturalized as citizens, they have begun to introduce
principles similar to those on which we wish to ground the People's
State.

The People's State will classify its population in three groups:
Citizens, subjects of the State, and aliens.

The principle is that birth within the confines of the State gives only
the status of a subject. It does not carry with it the right to fill any
position under the State or to participate in political life, such as
taking an active or passive part in elections. Another principle is that
the race and nationality of every subject of the State will have to be
proved. A subject is at any time free to cease being a subject and to
become a citizen of that country to which he belongs in virtue of his
nationality. The only difference between an alien and a subject of the
State is that the former is a citizen of another country.

The young boy or girl who is of German nationality and is a subject of
the German State is bound to complete the period of school education
which is obligatory for every German. Thereby he submits to the system
of training which will make him conscious of his race and a member of
the folk-community. Then he has to fulfil all those requirements laid
down by the State in regard to physical training after he has left
school; and finally he enters the army. The training in the army is of a
general kind. It must be given to each individual German and will render
him competent to fulfil the physical and mental requirements of military
service. The rights of citizenship shall be conferred on every young man
whose health and character have been certified as good, after having
completed his period of military service. This act of inauguration in
citizenship shall be a solemn ceremony. And the diploma conferring the
rights of citizenship will be preserved by the young man as the most
precious testimonial of his whole life. It entitles him to exercise all
the rights of a citizen and to enjoy all the privileges attached
thereto. For the State must draw a sharp line of distinction between
those who, as members of the nation, are the foundation and the support
of its existence and greatness, and those who are domiciled in the State
simply as earners of their livelihood there.

On the occasion of conferring a diploma of citizenship the new citizen
must take a solemn oath of loyalty to the national community and the
State. This diploma must be a bond which unites together all the various
classes and sections of the nation. It shall be a greater honour to be a
citizen of this REICH, even as a street-sweeper, than to be the King of
a foreign State.

The citizen has privileges which are not accorded to the alien. He is
the master in the REICH. But this high honour has also its obligations.
Those who show themselves without personal honour or character, or
common criminals, or traitors to the fatherland, can at any time be
deprived of the rights of citizenship. Therewith they become merely
subjects of the State.

The German girl is a subject of the State but will become a citizen when
she marries. At the same time those women who earn their livelihood
independently have the right to acquire citizenship if they are German
subjects.




CHAPTER IV



PERSONALITY AND THE IDEAL OF THE PEOPLE'S STATE


If the principal duty of the National Socialist People's State be to
educate and promote the existence of those who are the material out of
which the State is formed, it will not be sufficient to promote those
racial elements as such, educate them and finally train them for
practical life, but the State must also adapt its own organization to
meet the demands of this task.

It would be absurd to appraise a man's worth by the race to which he
belongs and at the same time to make war against the Marxist principle,
that all men are equal, without being determined to pursue our own
principle to its ultimate consequences. If we admit the significance of
blood, that is to say, if we recognize the race as the fundamental
element on which all life is based, we shall have to apply to the
individual the logical consequences of this principle. In general I must
estimate the worth of nations differently, on the basis of the different
races from which they spring, and I must also differentiate in
estimating the worth of the individual within his own race. The
principle, that one people is not the same as another, applies also to
the individual members of a national community. No one brain, for
instance, is equal to another; because the constituent elements
belonging to the same blood vary in a thousand subtle details, though
they are fundamentally of the same quality.

The first consequence of this fact is comparatively simple. It demands
that those elements within the folk-community which show the best racial
qualities ought to be encouraged more than the others and especially
they should be encouraged to increase and multiply.

This task is comparatively simple because it can be recognized and
carried out almost mechanically. It is much more difficult to select
from among a whole multitude of people all those who actually possess
the highest intellectual and spiritual characteristics and assign them
to that sphere of influence which not only corresponds to their
outstanding talents but in which their activities will above all things
be of benefit to the nation. This selection according to capacity and
efficiency cannot be effected in a mechanical way. It is a work which
can be accomplished only through the permanent struggle of everyday life
itself.

A WELTANSCHAUUNG which repudiates the democratic principle of the rule
of the masses and aims at giving this world to the best people--that
is, to the highest quality of mankind--must also apply that same
aristocratic postulate to the individuals within the folk-community. It
must take care that the positions of leadership and highest influence
are given to the best men. Hence it is not based on the idea of the
majority, but on that of personality.

Anyone who believes that the People's National Socialist State should
distinguish itself from the other States only mechanically, as it were,
through the better construction of its economic life--thanks to a
better equilibrium between poverty and riches, or to the extension to
broader masses of the power to determine the economic process, or to a
fairer wage, or to the elimination of vast differences in the scale of
salaries--anyone who thinks this understands only the superficial
features of our movement and has not the least idea of what we mean when
we speak of our WELTANSCHAUUNG. All these features just mentioned could
not in the least guarantee us a lasting existence and certainly would be
no warranty of greatness. A nation that could content itself with
external reforms would not have the slightest chance of success in the
general struggle for life among the nations of the world. A movement
that would confine its mission to such adjustments, which are certainly
right and equitable, would effect no far-reaching or profound reform in
the existing order. The whole effect of such measures would be limited
to externals. They would not furnish the nation with that moral armament
which alone will enable it effectively to overcome the weaknesses from
which we are suffering to-day.

In order to elucidate this point of view it may be worth while to glance
once again at the real origins and causes of the cultural evolution of
mankind.

The first step which visibly brought mankind away from the animal world
was that which led to the first invention. The invention itself owes its
origin to the ruses and stratagems which man employed to assist him in
the struggle with other creatures for his existence and often to provide
him with the only means he could adopt to achieve success in the
struggle. Those first very crude inventions cannot be attributed to the
individual; for the subsequent observer, that is to say the modern
observer, recognizes them only as collective phenomena. Certain tricks
and skilful tactics which can be observed in use among the animals
strike the eye of the observer as established facts which may be seen
everywhere; and man is no longer in a position to discover or explain
their primary cause and so he contents himself with calling such
phenomena 'instinctive.'

In our case this term has no meaning. Because everyone who believes in
the higher evolution of living organisms must admit that every
manifestation of the vital urge and struggle to live must have had a
definite beginning in time and that one subject alone must have
manifested it for the first time. It was then repeated again and again;
and the practice of it spread over a widening area, until finally it
passed into the subconscience of every member of the species, where it
manifested itself as 'instinct.'

This is more easily understood and more easy to believe in the case of
man. His first skilled tactics in the struggle with the rest of the
animals undoubtedly originated in his management of creatures which
possessed special capabilities.

There can be no doubt that personality was then the sole factor in all
decisions and achievements, which were afterwards taken over by the
whole of humanity as a matter of course. An exact exemplification of
this may be found in those fundamental military principles which have
now become the basis of all strategy in war. Originally they sprang from
the brain of a single individual and in the course of many years, maybe
even thousands of years, they were accepted all round as a matter of
course and this gained universal validity.

Man completed his first discovery by making a second. Among other things
he learned how to master other living beings and make them serve him in
his struggle for existence. And thus began the real inventive activity
of mankind, as it is now visible before our eyes. Those material
inventions, beginning with the use of stones as weapons, which led to
the domestication of animals, the production of fire by artificial
means, down to the marvellous inventions of our own days, show clearly
that an individual was the originator in each case. The nearer we come
to our own time and the more important and revolutionary the inventions
become, the more clearly do we recognize the truth of that statement.
All the material inventions which we see around us have been produced by
the creative powers and capabilities of individuals. And all these
inventions help man to raise himself higher and higher above the animal
world and to separate himself from that world in an absolutely definite
way. Hence they serve to elevate the human species and continually to
promote its progress. And what the most primitive artifice once did for
man in his struggle for existence, as he went hunting through the
primeval forest, that same sort of assistance is rendered him to-day in
the form of marvellous scientific inventions which help him in the
present day struggle for life and to forge weapons for future struggles.
In their final consequences all human thought and invention help man in
his life-struggle on this planet, even though the so-called practical
utility of an invention, a discovery or a profound scientific theory,
may not be evident at first sight. Everything contributes to raise man
higher and higher above the level of all the other creatures that
surround him, thereby strengthening and consolidating his position; so
that he develops more and more in every direction as the ruling being on
this earth.

Hence all inventions are the result of the creative faculty of the
individual. And all such individuals, whether they have willed it or
not, are the benefactors of mankind, both great and small. Through their
work millions and indeed billions of human beings have been provided
with means and resources which facilitate their struggle for existence.

Thus at the origin of the material civilization which flourishes to-day
we always see individual persons. They supplement one another and one of
them bases his work on that of the other. The same is true in regard to
the practical application of those inventions and discoveries. For all
the various methods of production are in their turn inventions also and
consequently dependent on the creative faculty of the individual. Even
the purely theoretical work, which cannot be measured by a definite rule
and is preliminary to all subsequent technical discoveries, is
exclusively the product of the individual brain. The broad masses do not
invent, nor does the majority organize or think; but always and in every
case the individual man, the person.

Accordingly a human community is well organized only when it facilitates
to the highest possible degree individual creative forces and utilizes
their work for the benefit of the community. The most valuable factor of
an invention, whether it be in the world of material realities or in the
world of abstract ideas, is the personality of the inventor himself. The
first and supreme duty of an organized folk community is to place the
inventor in a position where he can be of the greatest benefit to all.
Indeed the very purpose of the organization is to put this principle
into practice. Only by so doing can it ward off the curse of
mechanization and remain a living thing. In itself it must personify the
effort to place men of brains above the multitude and to make the latter
obey the former.

Therefore not only does the organization possess no right to prevent men
of brains from rising above the multitude but, on the contrary, it must
use its organizing powers to enable and promote that ascension as far as
it possibly can. It must start out from the principle that the blessings
of mankind never came from the masses but from the creative brains of
individuals, who are therefore the real benefactors of humanity. It is
in the interest of all to assure men of creative brains a decisive
influence and facilitate their work. This common interest is surely not
served by allowing the multitude to rule, for they are not capable of
thinking nor are they efficient and in no case whatsoever can they be
said to be gifted. Only those should rule who have the natural
temperament and gifts of leadership.

Such men of brains are selected mainly, as I have already said, through
the hard struggle for existence itself. In this struggle there are many
who break down and collapse and thereby show that they are not called by
Destiny to fill the highest positions; and only very few are left who
can be classed among the elect. In the realm of thought and of artistic
creation, and even in the economic field, this same process of selection
takes place, although--especially in the economic field--its operation
is heavily handicapped. This same principle of selection rules in the
administration of the State and in that department of power which
personifies the organized military defence of the nation. The idea of
personality rules everywhere, the authority of the individual over his
subordinates and the responsibility of the individual towards the
persons who are placed over him. It is only in political life that this
very natural principle has been completely excluded. Though all human
civilization has resulted exclusively from the creative activity of the
individual, the principle that it is the mass which counts--through the
decision of the majority--makes its appearance only in the
administration of the national community especially in the higher
grades; and from there downwards the poison gradually filters into all
branches of national life, thus causing a veritable decomposition. The
destructive workings of Judaism in different parts of the national body
can be ascribed fundamentally to the persistent Jewish efforts at
undermining the importance of personality among the nations that are
their hosts and, in place of personality, substituting the domination of
the masses. The constructive principle of Aryan humanity is thus
displaced by the destructive principle of the Jews, They become the
'ferment of decomposition' among nations and races and, in a broad
sense, the wreckers of human civilization.

Marxism represents the most striking phase of the Jewish endeavour to
eliminate the dominant significance of personality in every sphere of
human life and replace it by the numerical power of the masses. In
politics the parliamentary form of government is the expression of this
effort. We can observe the fatal effects of it everywhere, from the
smallest parish council upwards to the highest governing circles of the
nation. In the field of economics we see the trade union movement, which
does not serve the real interests of the employees but the destructive
aims of international Jewry. Just to the same degree in which the
principle of personality is excluded from the economic life of the
nation, and the influence and activities of the masses substituted in
its stead, national economy, which should be for the service and benefit
of the community as a whole, will gradually deteriorate in its creative
capacity. The shop committees which, instead of caring for the interests
of the employees, strive to influence the process of production, serve
the same destructive purpose. They damage the general productive system
and consequently injure the individual engaged in industry. For in the
long run it is impossible to satisfy popular demands merely by
high-sounding theoretical phrases. These can be satisfied only by
supplying goods to meet the individual needs of daily life and by so
doing create the conviction that, through the productive collaboration
of its members, the folk community serves the interests of the
individual.

Even if, on the basis of its mass-theory, Marxism should prove itself
capable of taking over and developing the present economic system, that
would not signify anything. The question as to whether the Marxist
doctrine be right or wrong cannot be decided by any test which would
show that it can administer for the future what already exists to-day,
but only by asking whether it has the creative power to build up
according to its own principles a civilization which would be a
counterpart of what already exists. Even if Marxism were a thousandfold
capable of taking over the economic life as we now have it and
maintaining it in operation under Marxist direction, such an achievement
would prove nothing; because, on the basis of its own principles,
Marxism would never be able to create something which could supplant
what exists to-day.

And Marxism itself has furnished the proof that it cannot do this. Not
only has it been unable anywhere to create a cultural or economic system
of its own; but it was not even able to develop, according to its own
principles, the civilization and economic system it found ready at hand.
It has had to make compromises, by way of a return to the principle of
personality, just as it cannot dispense with that principle in its own
organization.

The racial WELTANSCHAUUNG is fundamentally distinguished from the
Marxist by reason of the fact that the former recognizes the
significance of race and therefore also personal worth and has made
these the pillars of its structure. These are the most important factors
of its WELTANSCHAUUNG.

If the National Socialist Movement should fail to understand the
fundamental importance of this essential principle, if it should merely
varnish the external appearance of the present State and adopt the
majority principle, it would really do nothing more than compete with
Marxism on its own ground. For that reason it would not have the right
to call itself a WELTANSCHAUUNG. If the social programme of the
movement consisted in eliminating personality and putting the multitude
in its place, then National Socialism would be corrupted with the poison
of Marxism, just as our national-bourgeois parties are.

The People's State must assure the welfare of its citizens by
recognizing the importance of personal values under all circumstances
and by preparing the way for the maximum of productive efficiency in all
the various branches of economic life, thus securing to the individual
the highest possible share in the general output.

Hence the People's State must mercilessly expurgate from all the leading
circles in the government of the country the parliamentarian principle,
according to which decisive power through the majority vote is invested
in the multitude. Personal responsibility must be substituted in its
stead.

From this the following conclusion results:

The best constitution and the best form of government is that which
makes it quite natural for the best brains to reach a position of
dominant importance and influence in the community.

Just as in the field of economics men of outstanding ability cannot be
designated from above but must come forward in virtue of their own
efforts, and just as there is an unceasing educative process that leads
from the smallest shop to the largest undertaking, and just as life
itself is the school in which those lessons are taught, so in the
political field it is not possible to 'discover' political talent all in
a moment. Genius of an extraordinary stamp is not to be judged by normal
standards whereby we judge other men.

In its organization the State must be established on the principle of
personality, starting from the smallest cell and ascending up to the
supreme government of the country.

There are no decisions made by the majority vote, but only by
responsible persons. And the word 'council' is once more restored to its
original meaning. Every man in a position of responsibility will have
councillors at his side, but the decision is made by that individual
person alone.

The principle which made the former Prussian Army an admirable
instrument of the German nation will have to become the basis of our
statal constitution, that is to say, full authority over his
subordinates must be invested in each leader and he must be responsible
to those above him.

Even then we shall not be able to do without those corporations which at
present we call parliaments. But they will be real councils, in the
sense that they will have to give advice. The responsibility can and
must be borne by one individual, who alone will be vested with authority
and the right to command.

Parliaments as such are necessary because they alone furnish the
opportunity for leaders to rise gradually who will be entrusted
subsequently with positions of special responsibility.

The following is an outline of the picture which the organization will
present:

From the municipal administration up to the government of the REICH, the
People's State will not have any body of representatives which makes its
decisions through the majority vote. It will have only advisory bodies
to assist the chosen leader for the time being and he will distribute
among them the various duties they are to perform. In certain fields
they may, if necessary, have to assume full responsibility, such as the
leader or president of each corporation possesses on a larger scale.

In principle the People's State must forbid the custom of taking advice
on certain political problems--economics, for instance--from persons
who are entirely incompetent because they lack special training and
practical experience in such matters. Consequently the State must divide
its representative bodies into a political chamber and a corporative
chamber that represents the respective trades and professions.

To assure an effective co-operation between those two bodies, a selected
body will be placed over them. This will be a special senate.

No vote will be taken in the chambers or senate. They are to be
organizations for work and not voting machines. The individual members
will have consultive votes but no right of decision will be attached
thereto. The right of decision belongs exclusively to the president, who
must be entirely responsible for the matter under discussion.

This principle of combining absolute authority with absolute
responsibility will gradually cause a selected group of leaders to
emerge; which is not even thinkable in our present epoch of
irresponsible parliamentarianism.

The political construction of the nation will thereby be brought into
harmony with those laws to which the nation already owes its greatness
in the economic and cultural spheres.

Regarding the possibility of putting these principles into practice, I
should like to call attention to the fact that the principle of
parliamentarian democracy, whereby decisions are enacted through the
majority vote, has not always ruled the world. On the contrary, we find
it prevalent only during short periods of history, and those have always
been periods of decline in nations and States.

One must not believe, however, that such a radical change could be
effected by measures of a purely theoretical character, operating from
above downwards; for the change I have been describing could not be
limited to transforming the constitution of a State but would have to
include the various fields of legislation and civic existence as a
whole. Such a revolution can be brought about only by means of a
movement which is itself organized under the inspiration of these
principles and thus bears the germ of the future State in its own
organism.

Therefore it is well for the National Socialist Movement to make itself
completely familiar with those principles to-day and actually to put
them into practice within its own organization, so that not only will it
be in a position to serve as a guide for the future State but will have
its own organization such that it can subsequently be placed at the
disposal of the State itself.




CHAPTER V



WELTANSCHAUUNG AND ORGANIZATION


The People's State, which I have tried to sketch in general outline,
will not become a reality in virtue of the simple fact that we know the
indispensable conditions of its existence. It does not suffice to know
what aspect such a State would present. The problem of its foundation is
far more important. The parties which exist at present and which draw
their profits from the State as it now is cannot be expected to bring
about a radical change in the regime or to change their attitude on
their own initiative. This is rendered all the more impossible because
the forces which now have the direction of affairs in their hands are
Jews here and Jews there and Jews everywhere. The trend of development
which we are now experiencing would, if allowed to go on unhampered,
lead to the realization of the Pan-Jewish prophecy that the Jews will
one day devour the other nations and become lords of the earth.

In contrast to the millions of 'bourgeois' and 'proletarian' Germans,
who are stumbling to their ruin, mostly through timidity, indolence and
stupidity, the Jew pursues his way persistently and keeps his eye always
fixed on his future goal. Any party that is led by him can fight for no
other interests than his, and his interests certainly have nothing in
common with those of the Aryan nations.

If we would transform our ideal picture of the People's State into a
reality we shall have to keep independent of the forces that now control
public life and seek for new forces that will be ready and capable of
taking up the fight for such an ideal. For a fight it will have to be,
since the first objective will not be to build up the idea of the
People's State but rather to wipe out the Jewish State which is now in
existence. As so often happens in the course of history, the main
difficulty is not to establish a new order of things but to clear the
ground for its establishment. Prejudices and egotistic interests join
together in forming a common front against the new idea and in trying by
every means to prevent its triumph, because it is disagreeable to them
or threatens their existence.

That is why the protagonist of the new idea is unfortunately, in spite
of his {254}desire for constructive work, compelled to wage a
destructive battle first, in order to abolish the existing state of
affairs.

A doctrine whose principles are radically new and of essential
importance must adopt the sharp probe of criticism as its weapon, though
this may show itself disagreeable to the individual followers.

It is evidence of a very superficial insight into historical
developments if the so-called folkists emphasize again and again that
they will adopt the use of negative criticism under no circumstances but
will engage only in constructive work. That is nothing but puerile
chatter and is typical of the whole lot of folkists. It is another proof
that the history of our own times has made no impression on these minds.
Marxism too has had its aims to pursue and it also recognizes
constructive work, though by this it understands only the establishment
of despotic rule in the hands of international Jewish finance.
Nevertheless for seventy years its principal work still remains in the
field of criticism. And what disruptive and destructive criticism it has
been! Criticism repeated again and again, until the corrosive acid ate
into the old State so thoroughly that it finally crumbled to pieces.
Only then did the so-called 'constructive' critical work of Marxism
begin. And that was natural, right and logical. An existing order of
things is not abolished by merely proclaiming and insisting on a new
one. It must not be hoped that those who are the partisans of the
existing order and have their interests bound up with it will be
converted and won over to the new movement simply by being shown that
something new is necessary. On the contrary, what may easily happen is
that two different situations will exist side by side and that a
WELTANSCHAUUNG is transformed into a party, above which level it will
not be able to raise itself afterwards. For a WELTANSCHAUUNG is
intolerant and cannot permit another to exist side by side with it. It
imperiously demands its own recognition as unique and exclusive and a
complete transformation in accordance with its views throughout all the
branches of public life. It can never allow the previous state of
affairs to continue in existence by its side.

And the same holds true of religions.

Christianity was not content with erecting an altar of its own. It had
first to destroy the pagan altars. It was only in virtue of this
passionate intolerance that an apodictic faith could grow up. And
intolerance is an indispensable condition for the growth of such a
faith.

It may be objected here that in these phenomena which we find throughout
the history of the world we have to recognize mostly a specifically
Jewish mode of thought and that such fanaticism and intolerance are
typical symptoms of Jewish mentality. That may be a thousandfold true;
and it is a fact deeply to be regretted. The appearance of intolerance
and fanaticism in the history of mankind may be deeply regrettable, and
it may be looked upon as foreign to human nature, but the fact does not
change conditions as they exist to-day. The men who wish to liberate our
German nation from the conditions in which it now exists cannot cudgel
their brains with thinking how excellent it would be if this or that had
never arisen. They must strive to find ways and means of abolishing what
actually exists. A philosophy of life which is inspired by an infernal
spirit of intolerance can only be set aside by a doctrine that is
advanced in an equally ardent spirit and fought for with as determined a
will and which is itself a new idea, pure and absolutely true.

Each one of us to-day may regret the fact that the advent of
Christianity was the first occasion on which spiritual terror was
introduced into the much freer ancient world, but the fact cannot be
denied that ever since then the world is pervaded and dominated by this
kind of coercion and that violence is broken only by violence and terror
by terror. Only then can a new regime be created by means of
constructive work. Political parties are prone to enter compromises; but
a WELTANSCHAUUNG never does this. A political party is inclined to
adjust its teachings with a view to meeting those of its opponents, but
a WELTANSCHAUUNG proclaims its own infallibility.

In the beginning, political parties have also and nearly always the
intention of {255}securing an exclusive and despotic domination for
themselves. They always show a slight tendency to become
WELTANSCHHAUUNGen. But the limited nature of their programme is in
itself enough to rob them of that heroic spirit which a WELTANSCHAUUNG
demands. The spirit of conciliation which animates their will attracts
those petty and chicken-hearted people who are not fit to be
protagonists in any crusade. That is the reason why they mostly become
struck in their miserable pettiness very early on the march. They give
up fighting for their ideology and, by way of what they call 'positive
collaboration,' they try as quickly as possible to wedge themselves into
some tiny place at the trough of the existent regime and to stick there
as long as possible. Their whole effort ends at that. And if they should
get shouldered away from the common manger by a competition of more
brutal manners then their only idea is to force themselves in again, by
force or chicanery, among the herd of all the others who have similar
appetites, in order to get back into the front row, and finally--even
at the expense of their most sacred convictions--participate anew in
that beloved spot where they find their fodder. They are the jackals of
politics.

But a general WELTANSCHAUUNG will never share its place with something
else. Therefore it can never agree to collaborate in any order of things
that it condemns. On the contrary it feels obliged to employ every means
in fighting against the old order and the whole world of ideas belonging
to that order and prepare the way for its destruction.

These purely destructive tactics, the danger of which is so readily
perceived by the enemy that he forms a united front against them for his
common defence, and also the constructive tactics, which must be
aggressive in order to carry the new world of ideas to success--both
these phases of the struggle call for a body of resolute fighters. Any
new philosophy of life will bring its ideas to victory only if the most
courageous and active elements of its epoch and its people are enrolled
under its standards and grouped firmly together in a powerful fighting
organization. To achieve this purpose it is absolutely necessary to
select from the general system of doctrine a certain number of ideas
which will appeal to such individuals and which, once they are expressed
in a precise and clear-cut form, will serve as articles of faith for a
new association of men. While the programme of the ordinary political
party is nothing but the recipe for cooking up favourable results out of
the next general elections, the programme of a WELTANSCHAUUNG
represents a declaration of war against an existing order of things,
against present conditions, in short, against the established
WELTANSCHAUUNG.

It is not necessary, however, that every individual fighter for such a
new doctrine need have a full grasp of the ultimate ideas and plans of
those who are the leaders of the movement. It is only necessary that
each should have a clear notion of the fundamental ideas and that he
should thoroughly assimilate a few of the most fundamental principles,
so that he will be convinced of the necessity of carrying the movement
and its doctrines to success. The individual soldier is not initiated in
the knowledge of high strategical plans. But he is trained to submit to
a rigid discipline, to be passionately convinced of the justice and
inner worth of his cause and that he must devote himself to it without
reserve. So, too, the individual follower of a movement must be made
acquainted with its far-reaching purpose, how it is inspired by a
powerful will and has a great future before it.

Supposing that each soldier in an army were a general, and had the
training and capacity for generalship, that army would not be an
efficient fighting instrument. Similarly a political movement would not
be very efficient in fighting for a WELTANSCHAUUNG if it were made up
exclusively of intellectuals. No, we need the simple soldier also.
Without him no discipline can be established.

By its very nature, an organization can exist only if leaders of high
intellectual ability are served by a large mass of men who are
emotionally devoted to the cause. To maintain discipline in a company of
two hundred men who are equally intelligent and capable would turn out
more difficult in the long run than in a company of one hundred and
ninety less gifted men and ten who have had a higher education.

{256}The Social-Democrats have profited very much by recognizing this
truth. They took the broad masses of our people who had just completed
military service and learned to submit to discipline, and they subjected
this mass of men to the discipline of the Social-Democratic
organization, which was no less rigid than the discipline through which
the young men had passed in their military training. The
Social-Democratic organization consisted of an army divided into
officers and men. The German worker who had passed through his military
service became the private soldier in that army, and the Jewish
intellectual was the officer. The German trade union functionaries may
be compared to the non-commissioned officers. The fact, which was always
looked upon with indifference by our middle-classes, that only the
so-called uneducated classes joined Marxism was the very ground on which
this party achieved its success. For while the bourgeois parties,
because they mostly consisted of intellectuals, were only a feckless
band of undisciplined individuals, out of much less intelligent human
material the Marxist leaders formed an army of party combatants who obey
their Jewish masters just as blindly as they formerly obeyed their
German officers. The German middle-classes, who never; bothered their
heads about psychological problems because they felt themselves superior
to such matters, did not think it necessary to reflect on the profound
significance of this fact and the secret danger involved in it. Indeed
they believed. that a political movement which draws its followers
exclusively from intellectual circles must, for that very reason, be of
greater importance and have better grounds. for its chances of success,
and even a greater probability of taking over the government of the
country than a party made up of the ignorant masses. They completely
failed to realize the fact that the strength of a political party never
consists in the intelligence and independent spirit of the rank-and-file
of its members but rather in the spirit of willing obedience with which
they follow their intellectual leaders. What is of decisive importance
is the leadership itself. When two bodies of troops are arrayed in
mutual combat victory will not fall to that side in which every soldier
has an expert knowledge of the rules of strategy, but rather to that
side which has the best leaders and at the same time the best
disciplined, most blindly obedient and best drilled troops.

That is a fundamental piece of knowledge which we must always bear in
mind when we examine the possibility of transforming a WELTANSCHAUUNG
into a practical reality.

If we agree that in order to carry a WELTANSCHAUUNG into practical
effect it must be incorporated in a fighting movement, then the logical
consequence is that the programme of such a movement must take account
of the human material at its disposal. Just as the ultimate aims and
fundamental principles must be absolutely definite and unmistakable, so
the propagandist programme must be well drawn up and must be inspired by
a keen sense of its psychological appeals to the minds of those without
whose help the noblest ideas will be doomed to remain in the eternal,
realm of ideas.

If the idea of the People's State, which is at present an obscure wish,
is one day to attain a clear and definite success, from its vague and
vast mass of thought it will have to put forward certain definite
principles which of their very nature and content are calculated to
attract a broad mass of adherents; in other words, such a group of
people as can guarantee that these principles will be fought for. That
group of people are the German workers.

That is why the programme of the new movement was condensed into a few
fundamental postulates, twenty-five in all. They are meant first of all
to give the ordinary man a rough sketch of what the movement is aiming
at. They are, so to say, a profession of faith which on the one hand is
meant to win adherents to the movement and, on the other, they are meant
to unite such adherents together in a covenant to which all have
subscribed.

In these matters we must never lose sight of the following: What we call
the programme of the movement is absolutely right as far as its ultimate
aims are concerned, but as regards the manner in which that programme is
formulated, certain psychological considerations had to be taken
into account. Hence, in the course of time, the opinion may well arise
that certain principles should be expressed differently and might be
better formulated. But any attempt at a different formulation has a
fatal effect in most cases. For something that ought to be fixed and
unshakable thereby becomes the subject of discussion. As soon as one
point alone is removed from the sphere of dogmatic certainty, the
discussion will not simply result in a new and better formulation which
will have greater consistency but may easily lead to endless debates and
general confusion. In such cases the question must always be carefully
considered as to whether a new and more adequate formulation is to be
preferred, though it may cause a controversy within the movement, or
whether it may not be better to retain the old formula which, though
probably not the best, represents an organism enclosed in itself, solid
and internally homogeneous. All experience shows that the second of
these alternatives is preferable. For since in these changes one is
dealing only with external forms such corrections will always appear
desirable and possible. But in the last analysis the generality of
people think superficially and therefore the great danger is that in
what is merely an external formulation of the programme people will see
an essential aim of the movement. In that way the will and the combative
force at the service of the ideas are weakened and the energies that
ought to be directed towards the outer world are dissipated in
programmatic discussions within the ranks of the movement.

For a doctrine that is actually right in its main features it is less
dangerous to retain a formulation which may no longer be quite adequate
instead of trying to improve it and thereby allowing a fundamental
principle of the movement, which had hitherto been considered as solid
as granite, to become the subject of a general discussion which may have
unfortunate consequences. This is particularly to be avoided as long as
a movement is still fighting for victory. For would it be possible to
inspire people with blind faith in the truth of a doctrine if doubt and
uncertainty are encouraged by continual alterations in its external
formulation?

The essentials of a teaching must never be looked for in its external
formulas, but always in its inner meaning. And this meaning is
unchangeable. And in its interest one can only wish that a movement
should exclude everything that tends towards disintegration and
uncertainty in order to preserve the unified force that is necessary for
its triumph.

Here again the Catholic Church has a lesson to teach us. Though
sometimes, and often quite unnecessarily, its dogmatic system is in
conflict with the exact sciences and with scientific discoveries, it is
not disposed to sacrifice a syllable of its teachings. It has rightly
recognized that its powers of resistance would be weakened by
introducing greater or less doctrinal adaptations to meet the temporary
conclusions of science, which in reality are always vacillating. And
thus it holds fast to its fixed and established dogmas which alone can
give to the whole system the character of a faith. And that is the
reason why it stands firmer to-day than ever before. We may prophesy
that, as a fixed pole amid fleeting phenomena, it will continue to
attract increasing numbers of people who will be blindly attached to it
the more rapid the rhythm of changing phenomena around it.

Therefore whoever really and seriously desires that the idea of the
People's State should triumph must realize that this triumph can be
assured only through a militant movement and that this movement must
ground its strength only on the granite firmness of an impregnable and
firmly coherent programme. In regard to its formulas it must never make
concessions to the spirit of the time but must maintain the form that
has once and for all been decided upon as the right one; in any case
until victory has crowned its efforts. Before this goal has been reached
any attempt to open a discussion on the opportuneness of this or that
point in the programme might tend to disintegrate the solidity and
fighting strength of the movement, according to the measures in which
its followers might take part in such an internal dispute. Some
'improvements' introduced to-day might be subjected to a critical
examination to-morrow, in order to substitute it with something better
{258}the day after. Once the barrier has been taken down the road is
opened and we know only the beginning, but we do not know to what
shoreless sea it may lead.

This important principle had to be acknowledged in practice by the
members of the National Socialist Movement at its very beginning. In its
programme of twenty-five points the National Socialist German Labour
Party has been furnished with a basis that must remain unshakable. The
members of the movement, both present and future, must never feel
themselves called upon to undertake a critical revision of these leading
postulates, but rather feel themselves obliged to put them into practice
as they stand. Otherwise the next generation would, in its turn and with
equal right, expend its energy in such purely formal work within the
party, instead of winning new adherents to the movement and thus adding
to its power. For the majority of our followers the essence of the
movement will consist not so much in the letter of our theses but in the
meaning that we attribute to them.

The new movement owes its name to these considerations, and later on its
programme was drawn up in conformity with them. They are the basis of
our propaganda. In order to carry the idea of the People's State to
victory, a popular party had to be founded, a party that did not consist
of intellectual leaders only but also of manual labourers. Any attempt
to carry these theories into effect without the aid of a militant
organization would be doomed to failure to-day, as it has failed in the
past and must fail in the future. That is why the movement is not only
justified but it is also obliged to consider itself as the champion and
representative of these ideas. Just as the fundamental principles of the
National Socialist Movement are based on the folk idea, folk ideas are
National Socialist. If National Socialism would triumph it will have to
hold firm to this fact unreservedly, and here again it has not only the
right but also the duty to emphasize most rigidly that any attempt to
represent the folk idea outside of the National Socialist German Labour
Party is futile and in most cases fraudulent.

If the reproach should be launched against our movement that it has
'monopolized' the folk idea, there is only one answer to give.

Not only have we monopolized the folk idea but, to all practical intents
and purposes, we have created it.

For what hitherto existed under this name was not in the least capable
of influencing the destiny of our people, since all those ideas lacked a
political and coherent formulation. In most cases they are nothing but
isolated and incoherent notions which are more or less right. Quite
frequently these were in open contradiction to one another and in no
case was there any internal cohesion among them. And even if this
internal cohesion existed it would have been much too weak to form the
basis of any movement.

Only the National Socialist Movement proved capable of fulfilling this
task.

All kinds of associations and groups, big as well as little, now claim
the title VO"LKISCH. This is one result of the work which National
Socialism has done. Without this work, not one of all these parties
would have thought of adopting the word VO"LKISCH at all. That expression
would have meant nothing to them and especially their directors would
never have had anything to do with such an idea. Not until the work of
the German National Socialist Labour Party had given this idea a
pregnant meaning did it appear in the mouths of all kinds of people. Our
party above all, by the success of its propaganda, has shown the force
of the folk idea; so much so that the others, in an effort to gain
proselytes, find themselves forced to copy our example, at least in
words.

Just as heretofore they exploited everything to serve their petty
electoral purposes, to-day they use the word VO"LKISCH only as an
external and hollow-sounding phrase for the purpose of counteracting the
force of the impression which the National Socialist Party makes on the
members of those other parties. Only the desire to maintain their
existence and the fear that our movement may prevail, because it is
based on a WELTANSCHAUUNG that is of universal importance, and because
they feel that the exclusive character of our movement betokens danger
for them--only for these reasons do they use words which they
repudiated eight {259}years ago, derided seven years ago, branded as
stupid six years ago, combated five years ago, hated four years ago, and
finally, two years ago, annexed and incorporated them in their present
political vocabulary, employing them as war slogans in their struggle.

And so it is necessary even now not to cease calling attention to the
fact that not one of those parties has the slightest idea of what the
German nation needs. The most striking proof of this is represented by
the superficial way in which they use the word VO"LKISCH.

Not less dangerous are those who run about as semi-folkists formulating
fantastic schemes which are mostly based on nothing else than a fixed
idea which in itself might be right but which, because it is an isolated
notion, is of no use whatsoever for the formation of a great homogeneous
fighting association and could by no means serve as the basis of its
organization. Those people who concoct a programme which consists partly
of their own ideas and partly of ideas taken from others, about which
they have read somewhere, are often more dangerous than the outspoken
enemies of the VO"LKISCH idea. At best they are sterile theorists but
more frequently they are mischievous agitators of the public mind. They
believe that they can mask their intellectual vanity, the futility of
their efforts, and their lack of stability, by sporting flowing beards
and indulging in ancient German gestures.

In face of all those futile attempts, it is therefore worth while to
recall the time when the new National Socialist Movement began its
fight.




CHAPTER VI



THE FIRST PERIOD OF OUR STRUGGLE


The echoes of our first great meeting, in the banquet hall of the
Hofbra"uhaus on February 24th, 1920, had not yet died away when we began
preparations for our next meeting. Up to that time we had to consider
carefully the venture of holding a small meeting every month or at most
every fortnight in a city like Munich; but now it was decided that we
should hold a mass meeting every week. I need not say that we anxiously
asked ourselves on each occasion again and again: Will the people come
and will they listen? Personally I was firmly convinced that if once
they came they would remain and listen.

During that period the hall of the Hofbrau Haus in Munich acquired for
us, National Socialists, a sort of mystic significance. Every week there
was a meeting, almost always in that hall, and each time the hall was
better filled than on the former occasion, and our public more
attentive.

Starting with the theme, 'Responsibility for the War,' which nobody at
that time cared about, and passing on to the discussion of the peace
treaties, we dealt with almost everything that served to stimulate the
minds of our audience and make them interested in our ideas. We drew
attention to the peace treaties. What the new movement prophesied again
and again before those great masses of people has been fulfilled almost
in every detail. To-day it is easy to talk and write about these things.
But in those days a public mass meeting which was attended not by the
small bourgeoisie but by proletarians who had been aroused by agitators,
to criticize the Peace Treaty of Versailles meant an attack on the
Republic and an evidence of reaction, if not of monarchist tendencies.
The moment one uttered the first criticism of the Versailles Treaty one
could expect an immediate reply, which became almost stereotyped: 'And
Brest-Litowsk?' 'Brest-Litowsk!' And then the crowd would murmur and the
murmur would gradually swell into a roar, until the speaker would have
to give up his attempt to persuade them. It would be like knocking one's
head against a wall, so desperate were these people. They would not
listen nor understand that Versailles was a scandal and a disgrace and
that the dictate signified an act of highway robbery against our people.
The disruptive work done by the Marxists and the poisonous propaganda of
the external enemy had robbed these people of their reason. And one had
no right to complain. For the guilt on this side was enormous. What had
the German bourgeoisie done to call a halt to this terrible campaign of
disintegration, to oppose it and open a way to a recognition of the
truth by giving a better and more thorough explanation of the situation
than that of the Marxists? Nothing, nothing. At that time I never saw
those who are now the great apostles of the people. Perhaps they spoke
to select groups, at tea parties of their own little coteries; but there
where they should have been, where the wolves were at work, they never
risked their appearance, unless it gave them the opportunity of yelling
in concert with the wolves.

As for myself, I then saw clearly that for the small group which first
composed our movement the question of war guilt had to be cleared up,
and cleared up in the light of historical truth. A preliminary condition
for the future success of our movement was that it should bring
knowledge of the meaning of the peace treaties to the minds of the
popular masses. In the opinion of the masses, the peace treaties then
signified a democratic success. Therefore, it was necessary to take the
opposite side and dig ourselves into the minds of the people as the
enemies of the peace treaties; so that later on, when the naked truth of
this despicable swindle would be disclosed in all its hideousness, the
people would recall the position which we then took and would give us
their confidence.

Already at that time I took up my stand on those important fundamental
questions where public opinion had gone wrong as a whole. I opposed
these wrong notions without regard either for popularity or for hatred,
and I was ready to face the fight. The National Socialist German Labour
Party ought not to be the beadle but rather the master of public
opinion. It must not serve the masses but rather dominate them.

In the case of every movement, especially during its struggling stages,
there is naturally a temptation to conform to the tactics of an opponent
and use the same battle-cries, when his tactics have succeeded in
leading the people to crazy conclusions or to adopt mistaken attitudes
towards the questions at issue. This temptation is particularly strong
when motives can be found, though they are entirely illusory, that seem
to point towards the same ends which the young movement is aiming at.
Human poltroonery will then all the more readily adopt those arguments
which give it a semblance of justification, 'from its own point of
view,' in participating in the criminal policy which the adversary is
following.

On several occasions I have experienced such cases, in which the
greatest energy had to be employed to prevent the ship of our movement
from being drawn into a general current which had been started
artificially, and indeed from sailing with it. The last occasion was
when our German Press, the Hecuba of the existence of the German nation,
succeeded in bringing the question of South Tyrol into a position of
importance which was seriously damaging to the interests of the German
people. Without considering what interests they were serving, several
so-called 'national' men, parties and leagues, joined in the general
cry, simply for fear of public opinion which had been excited by the
Jews, and foolishly contributed to help in the struggle against a system
which we Germans ought, particularly in those days, to consider as the
one ray of light in this distracted world. While the international
World-Jew is slowly but surely strangling us, our so-called patriots
vociferate against a man and his system which have had the courage to
liberate themselves from the shackles of Jewish Freemasonry at least in
one quarter of the globe and to set the forces of national resistance
against the international world-poison. But weak characters were tempted
to set their sails according to the direction of the wind and capitulate
before the shout of public opinion. For it was veritably a capitulation.
They are so much in the habit of lying and so morally base that men may
not admit this even to themselves, but the truth remains that only
cowardice and fear of the public feeling aroused by the Jews induced
certain people to join in the hue and cry. All the other reasons put
forward were only miserable excuses of paltry culprits who were
conscious of their own crime.

There it was necessary to grasp the rudder with an iron hand and turn
the movement about, so as to save it from a course that would have led
it on the rocks. Certainly to attempt such a change of course was not a
popular manoeuvre at that time, because all the leading forces of public
opinion had been active and a great flame of public feeling illuminated
only one direction. Such a decision almost always brings disfavour on
those who dare to take it. In the course of history not a few men have
been stoned for an act for which posterity has afterwards thanked them
on its knees.

But a movement must count on posterity and not on the plaudits of the
movement. It may well be that at such moments certain individuals have
to endure hours of anguish; but they should not forget that the moment
of liberation will come and that a movement which purposes to reshape
the world must serve the future and not the passing hour.

On this point it may be asserted that the greatest and most enduring
successes in history are mostly those which were least understood at the
beginning, because they were in strong contrast to public opinion and
the views and wishes of the time.

We had experience of this when we made our own first public appearance.
In all truth it can be said that we did not court public favour but made
an onslaught on the follies of our people. In those days the following
happened almost always: I presented myself before an assembly of men who
believed the opposite of what I wished to say and who wanted the
opposite of what I believed in. Then I had to spend a couple of hours in
persuading two or three thousand people to give up the opinions they had
first held, in destroying the foundations of their views with one blow
after another and finally in leading them over to take their stand on
the grounds of our own convictions and our WELTANSCHAUUNG.

I learned something that was important at that time, namely, to snatch
from the hands of the enemy the weapons which he was using in his reply.
I soon noticed that our adversaries, especially in the persons of those
who led the discussion against us, were furnished with a definite
repertoire of arguments out of which they took points against our claims
which were being constantly repeated. The uniform character of this mode
of procedure pointed to a systematic and unified training. And so we
were able to recognize the incredible way in which the enemy's
propagandists had been disciplined, and I am proud to-day that I
discovered a means not only of making this propaganda ineffective but of
beating the artificers of it at their own work. Two years later I was
master of that art.

In every speech which I made it was important to get a clear idea
beforehand of the probable form and matter of the counter-arguments we
had to expect in the discussion, so that in the course of my own speech
these could be dealt with and refuted. To this end it was necessary to
mention all the possible objections and show their inconsistency; it was
all the easier to win over an honest listener by expunging from his
memory the arguments which had been impressed upon it, so that we
anticipated our replies. What he had learned was refuted without having
been mentioned by him and that made him all the more attentive to what I
had to say.

That was the reason why, after my first lecture on the 'Peace Treaty of
Versailles,' which I delivered to the troops while I was still a
political instructor in my regiment, I made an alteration in the title
and subject and henceforth spoke on 'The Treaties of Brest-Litowsk and
Versailles.' For after the discussion which followed my first lecture I
quickly ascertained that in reality people knew nothing about the Treaty
of Brest-Litowsk and that able party propaganda had succeeded in
presenting that Treaty as one of the most scandalous acts of violence in
the history of the world.

As a result of the persistency with which this falsehood was repeated
again and again before the masses of the people, millions of Germans saw
in the Treaty of Versailles a just castigation for the crime we had
committed at Brest-Litowsk. Thus they considered all opposition to
Versailles as unjust and in many cases there was an honest moral dislike
to such a proceeding. And this was also the reason why the shameless and
monstrous word 'Reparations' came into common use in Germany. This
hypocritical falsehood appeared to millions of our exasperated fellow
countrymen as the fulfilment of a higher justice. It is a terrible
thought, but the fact was so. The best proof of this was the propaganda
which I initiated against Versailles by explaining the Treaty of
Brest-Litowsk. I compared the two treaties with one another, point by
point, and showed how in truth the one treaty was immensely humane, in
contradistinction to the inhuman barbarity of the other. The effect was
very striking. Then I spoke on this theme before an assembly of two
thousand persons, during which I often saw three thousand six hundred
hostile eyes fixed on me. And three hours later I had in front of me a
swaying mass of righteous indignation and fury. A great lie had been
uprooted from the hearts and brains of a crowd composed of thousands of
individuals and a truth had been implanted in its place.

The two lectures--that 'On the Causes of the World War' and 'On the
Peace Treaties of Brest-Litowsk and Versailles' respectively--I then
considered as the most important of all. Therefore I repeated them
dozens of times, always giving them a new intonation; until at least on
those points a definitely clear and unanimous opinion reigned among
those from whom our movement recruited its first members.

Furthermore, these gatherings brought me the advantage that I slowly
became a platform orator at mass meetings, and gave me practice in the
pathos and gesture required in large halls that held thousands of
people.

Outside of the small circles which I have mentioned, at that time I
found no party engaged in explaining things to the people in this way.
Not one of these parties was then active which talk to-day as if it was
they who had brought about the change in public opinion. If a political
leader, calling himself a nationalist, pronounced a discourse somewhere
or other on this theme it was only before circles which for the most
part were already of his own conviction and among whom the most that was
done was to confirm them in their opinions. But that was not what was
needed then. What was needed was to win over through propaganda and
explanation those whose opinions and mental attitudes held them bound to
the enemy's camp.

The one-page circular was also adopted by us to help in this propaganda.
While still a soldier I had written a circular in which I contrasted the
Treaty of Brest-Litowsk with that of Versailles. That circular was
printed and distributed in large numbers. Later on I used it for the
party, and also with good success. Our first meetings were distinguished
by the fact that there were tables covered with leaflets, papers, and
pamphlets of every kind. But we relied principally on the spoken word.
And, in fact, this is the only means capable of producing really great
revolutions, which can be explained on general psychological grounds.

In the first volume I have already stated that all the formidable events
which have changed the aspect of the world were carried through, not by
the written but by the spoken word. On that point there was a long
discussion in a certain section of the Press during the course of which

our shrewd bourgeois people strongly opposed my thesis. But the reason
for this attitude confounded the sceptics. The bourgeois intellectuals
protested against my attitude simply because they themselves did not
have the force or ability to influence the masses through the spoken
word; for they always relied exclusively on the help of writers and did
not enter the arena themselves as orators for the purpose of arousing
the people. The development of events necessarily led to that condition
of affairs which is characteristic of the bourgeoisie to-day, namely,
the loss of the psychological instinct to act upon and influence the
masses.

An orator receives continuous guidance from the people before whom he
speaks. This helps him to correct the direction of his speech; for he
can always gauge, by the faces of his hearers, how far they follow and
understand him, and whether his words are producing the desired effect.
But the writer does not know his reader at all. Therefore, from the
outset he does not address himself to a definite human group of persons
which he has before his eyes but must write in a general way. Hence, up
to a certain extent he must fail in psychological finesse and
flexibility. Therefore, in general it may be said that a brilliant
orator writes better than a brilliant writer can speak, unless the
latter has continual practice in public speaking. One must also remember
that of itself the multitude is mentally inert, that it remains attached
to its old habits and that it is not naturally prone to read something
which does not conform with its own pre-established beliefs when such
writing does not contain what the multitude hopes to find there.
Therefore, some piece of writing which has a particular tendency is for
the most part read only by those who are in sympathy with it. Only a
leaflet or a placard, on account of its brevity, can hope to arouse a
momentary interest in those whose opinions differ from it. The picture,
in all its forms, including the film, has better prospects. Here there
is less need of elaborating the appeal to the intelligence. It is
sufficient if one be careful to have quite short texts, because many
people are more ready to accept a pictorial presentation than to read a
long written description. In a much shorter time, at one stroke I might
say, people will understand a pictorial presentation of something which
it would take them a long and laborious effort of reading to understand.

The most important consideration, however, is that one never knows into
what hands a piece of written material comes and yet the form in which
its subject is presented must remain the same. In general the effect is
greater when the form of treatment corresponds to the mental level of
the reader and suits his nature. Therefore, a book which is meant for
the broad masses of the people must try from the very start to gain its
effects through a style and level of ideas which would be quite
different from a book intended to be read by the higher intellectual
classes.

Only through his capacity for adaptability does the force of the written
word approach that of oral speech. The orator may deal with the same
subject as a book deals with; but if he has the genius of a great and
popular orator he will scarcely ever repeat the same argument or the
same material in the same form on two consecutive occasions. He will
always follow the lead of the great mass in such a way that from the
living emotion of his hearers the apt word which he needs will be
suggested to him and in its turn this will go straight to the hearts of
his hearers. Should he make even a slight mistake he has the living
correction before him. As I have already said, he can read the play of
expression on the faces of his hearers, first to see if they understand
what he says, secondly to see if they take in the whole of his argument,
and, thirdly, in how far they are convinced of the justice of what has
been placed before them. Should he observe, first, that his hearers do
not understand him he will make his explanation so elementary and clear
that they will be able to grasp it, even to the last individual.
Secondly, if he feels that they are not capable of following him he will
make one idea follow another carefully and slowly until the most
slow-witted hearer no longer lags behind. Thirdly, as soon as he has the
feeling that they do not seem convinced that he is right in the way he
has put things to them he will repeat his argument over and over again,
always giving fresh illustrations, and he himself will state their
unspoken objection. He will repeat these objections, dissecting them and
refuting them, until the last group of the opposition show him by their
behaviour and play of expression that they have capitulated before his
exposition of the case.

Not infrequently it is a case of overcoming ingrained prejudices which
are mostly unconscious and are supported by sentiment rather than
reason. It is a thousand times more difficult to overcome this barrier
of instinctive aversion, emotional hatred and preventive dissent than to
correct opinions which are founded on defective or erroneous knowledge.
False ideas and ignorance may be set aside by means of instruction, but
emotional resistance never can. Nothing but an appeal to these hidden
forces will be effective here. And that appeal can be made by scarcely
any writer. Only the orator can hope to make it.

A very striking proof of this is found in the fact that, though we had a
bourgeois Press which in many cases was well written and produced and
had a circulation of millions among the people, it could not prevent the
broad masses from becoming the implacable enemies of the bourgeois
class. The deluge of papers and books published by the intellectual
circles year after year passed over the millions of the lower social
strata like water over glazed leather. This proves that one of two
things must be true: either that the matter offered in the bourgeois
Press was worthless or that it is impossible to reach the hearts of the
broad masses by means of the written word alone. Of course, the latter
would be specially true where the written material shows such little
psychological insight as has hitherto been the case.

It is useless to object here, as certain big Berlin papers of
German-National tendencies have attempted to do, that this statement is
refuted by the fact that the Marxists have exercised their greatest
influence through their writings, and especially through their principal
book, published by Karl Marx. Seldom has a more superficial argument
been based on a false assumption. What gave Marxism its amazing
influence over the broad masses was not that formal printed work which
sets forth the Jewish system of ideas, but the tremendous oral
propaganda carried on for years among the masses. Out of one hundred
thousand German workers scarcely one hundred know of Marx's book. It has
been studied much more in intellectual circles and especially by the
Jews than by the genuine followers of the movement who come from the
lower classes. That work was not written for the masses, but exclusively
for the intellectual leaders of the Jewish machine for conquering the
world. The engine was heated with quite different stuff: namely, the
journalistic Press. What differentiates the bourgeois Press from the
Marxist Press is that the latter is written by agitators, whereas the
bourgeois Press would like to carry on agitation by means of
professional writers. The Social-Democrat sub-editor, who almost always
came directly from the meeting to the editorial offices of his paper,
felt his job on his finger-tips. But the bourgeois writer who left his
desk to appear before the masses already felt ill when he smelled the
very odour of the crowd and found that what he had written was useless
to him.

What won over millions of workpeople to the Marxist cause was not the EX
CATHEDRA style of the Marxist writers but the formidable propagandist
work done by tens of thousands of indefatigable agitators, commencing
with the leading fiery agitator down to the smallest official in the
syndicate, the trusted delegate and the platform orator. Furthermore,
there were the hundreds of thousands of meetings where these orators,
standing on tables in smoky taverns, hammered their ideas into the heads
of the masses, thus acquiring an admirable psychological knowledge of
the human material they had to deal with. And in this way they were
enabled to select the best weapons for their assault on the citadel of
public opinion. In addition to all this there were the gigantic
mass-demonstrations with processions in which a hundred thousand men
took part. All this was calculated to impress on the petty-hearted
individual the proud conviction that, though a small worm, he was at the
same time a cell of the great dragon before whose devastating breath the
hated bourgeois world would one day be consumed in fire and flame, and
the dictatorship of the proletariat would celebrate its conclusive
victory.

This kind of propaganda influenced men in such a way as to give them a
taste for reading the Social Democratic Press and prepare their minds
for its teaching. That Press, in its turn, was a vehicle of the spoken
word rather than of the written word. Whereas in the bourgeois camp
professors and learned writers, theorists and authors of all kinds, made
attempts at talking, in the Marxist camp real speakers often made
attempts at writing. And it was precisely the Jew who was most prominent
here. In general and because of his shrewd dialectical skill and his
knack of twisting the truth to suit his own purposes, he was an
effective writer but in reality his ME'TIER was that of a revolutionary
orator rather than a writer.

For this reason the journalistic bourgeois world, setting aside the fact
that here also the Jew held the whip hand and that therefore this press
did not really interest itself in the instructtion of the broad masses,
was not able to exercise even the least influence over the opinions held
by the great masses of our people.

It is difficult to remove emotional prejudices, psychological bias,
feelings, etc., and to put others in their place. Success depends here
on imponderable conditions and influences. Only the orator who is gifted
with the most sensitive insight can estimate all this. Even the time of
day at which the speech is delivered has a decisive influence on its
results. The same speech, made by the same orator and on the same theme,
will have very different results according as it is delivered at ten
o'clock in the forenoon, at three in the afternoon, or in the evening.
When I first engaged in public speaking I arranged for meetings to take
place in the forenoon and I remember particularly a demonstration that
we held in the Munich Kindl Keller 'Against the Oppression of German
Districts.' That was the biggest hall then in Munich and the audacity of
our undertaking was great. In order to make the hour of the meeting
attractive for all the members of our movement and the other people who
might come, I fixed it for ten o'clock on a Sunday morning. The result
was depressing. But it was very instructive. The hall was filled. The
impression was profound, but the general feeling was cold as ice. Nobody
got warmed up, and I myself, as the speaker of the occasion, felt
profoundly unhappy at the thought that I could not establish the
slightest contact with my audience. I do not think I spoke worse than
before, but the effect seemed absolutely negative. I left the hall very
discontented, but also feeling that I had gained a new experience. Later
on I tried the same kind of experiment, but always with the same
results.

That was nothing to be wondered at. If one goes to a theatre to see a
matine'e performance and then attends an evening performance of the same
play one is astounded at the difference in the impressions created. A
sensitive person recognizes for himself the fact that these two states
of mind caused by the matinee and the evening performance respectively
are quite different in themselves. The same is true of cinema
productions. This latter point is important; for one may say of the
theatre that perhaps in the afternoon the actor does not make the same
effort as in the evening. But surely it cannot be said that the cinema
is different in the afternoon from what it is at nine o'clock in the
evening. No, here the time exercises a distinct influence, just as a
room exercises a distinct influence on a person. There are rooms which
leave one cold, for reasons which are difficult to explain. There are
rooms which refuse steadfastly to allow any favourable atmosphere to be
created in them. Moreover, certain memories and traditions which are
present as pictures in the human mind may have a determining influence
on the impression produced. Thus, a representation of Parsifal at
Bayreuth will have an effect quite different from that which the same
opera produces in any other part of the world. The mysterious charm of
the House on the 'Festival Heights' in the old city of The Margrave
cannot be equalled or substituted anywhere else.

In all these cases one deals with the problem of influencing the freedom
of the human will. And that is true especially of meetings where there
are men whose wills are opposed to the speaker and who must be brought
around to a new way of thinking. In the morning and during the day it
seems that the power of the human will rebels with its strongest energy
against any attempt to impose upon it the will or opinion of another. On
the other hand, in the evening it easily succumbs to the domination of a
stronger will. Because really in such assemblies there is a contest
between two opposite forces. The superior oratorical art of a man who
has the compelling character of an apostle will succeed better in
bringing around to a new way of thinking those who have naturally been
subjected to a weakening of their forces of resistance rather than in
converting those who are in full possession of their volitional and
intellectual energies.

The mysterious artificial dimness of the Catholic churches also serves
this purpose, the burning candles, the incense, the thurible, etc.

In this struggle between the orator and the opponent whom he must
convert to his cause this marvellous sensibility towards the
psychological influences of propaganda can hardly ever be availed of by
an author. Generally speaking, the effect of the writer's work helps
rather to conserve, reinforce and deepen the foundations of a mentality
already existing. All really great historical revolutions were not
produced by the written word. At most, they were accompanied by it.

It is out of the question to think that the French Revolution could have
been carried into effect by philosophizing theories if they had not
found an army of agitators led by demagogues of the grand style. These
demagogues inflamed popular passion that had been already aroused, until
that volcanic eruption finally broke out and convulsed the whole of
Europe. And the same happened in the case of the gigantic Bolshevik
revolution which recently took place in Russia. It was not due to the
writers on Lenin's side but to the oratorical activities of those who
preached the doctrine of hatred and that of the innumerable small and
great orators who took part in the agitation.

The masses of illiterate Russians were not fired to Communist
revolutionary enthusiasm by reading the theories of Karl Marx but by the
promises of paradise made to the people by thousands of agitators in the
service of an idea.

It was always so, and it will always be so.

It is just typical of our pig-headed intellectuals, who live apart from
the practical world, to think that a writer must of necessity be
superior to an orator in intelligence. This point of view was once
exquisitely illustrated by a critique, published in a certain National
paper which I have already mentioned, where it was stated that one is
often disillusioned by reading the speech of an acknowledged great
orator in print. That reminded me of another article which came into my
hands during the War. It dealt with the speeches of Lloyd George, who
was then Minister of Munitions, and examined them in a painstaking way
under the microscope of criticism. The writer made the brilliant
statement that these speeches showed inferior intelligence and learning
and that, moreover, they were banal and commonplace productions. I
myself procured some of these speeches, published in pamphlet form, and
had to laugh at the fact that a normal German quill-driver did not in
the least understand these psychological masterpieces in the art of
influencing the masses. This man criticized these speeches exclusively
according to the impression they made on his own blase' mind, whereas the
great British Demagogue had produced an immense effect on his audience
through them, and in the widest sense on the whole of the British
populace. Looked at from this point of view, that Englishman's speeches
were most wonderful achievements, precisely because they showed an
astounding knowledge of the soul of the broad masses of the people. For
that reason their effect was really penetrating. Compare with them the
futile stammerings of a Bethmann-Hollweg. On the surface his speeches
were undoubtedly more intellectual, but they just proved this man's
inability to speak to the people, which he really could not do.
Nevertheless, to the average stupid brain of the German writer, who is,
of course, endowed with a lot of scientific learning, it came quite
natural to judge the speeches of the English Minister--which were made
for the purpose of influencing the masses--by the impression which they
made on his own mind, fossilized in its abstract learning. And it was
more natural for him to compare them in the light of that impression
with the brilliant but futile talk of the German statesman, which of
course appealed to the writer's mind much more favourably. That the
genius of Lloyd George was not only equal but a thousandfold superior to
that of a Bethmann-Hollweg is proved by the fact that he found for his
speeches that form and expression which opened the hearts of his people
to him and made these people carry out his will absolutely. The
primitive quality itself of those speeches, the originality of his
expressions, his choice of clear and simple illustration, are examples
which prove the superior political capacity of this Englishman. For one
must never judge the speech of a statesman to his people by the
impression which it leaves on the mind of a university professor but by
the effect it produces on the people. And this is the sole criterion of
the orator's genius.

The astonishing development of our movement, which was created from
nothing a few years ago and is to-day singled out for persecution by all
the internal and external enemies of our nation, must be attributed to
the constant recognition and practical application of those principles.

Written matter also played an important part in our movement; but at the
stage of which I am writing it served to give an equal and uniform
education to the directors of the movement, in the upper as well as in
the lower grades, rather than to convert the masses of our adversaries.
It was only in very rare cases that a convinced and devoted Social
Democrat or Communist was induced to acquire an understanding of our
WELTANSCHAUUNG or to study a criticism of his own by procuring and
reading one of our pamphlets or even one of our books. Even a newspaper
is rarely read if it does not bear the stamp of a party affiliation.
Moreover, the reading of newspapers helps little; because the general
picture given by a single number of a newspaper is so confused and
produces such a fragmentary impression that it really does not influence
the occasional reader. And where a man has to count his pennies it
cannot be assumed that, exclusively for the purpose of being objectively
informed, he will become a regular reader or subscriber to a paper which
opposes his views. Only one who has already joined a movement will
regularly read the party organ of that movement, and especially for the
purpose of keeping himself informed of what is happening in the
movement.

It is quite different with the 'spoken' leaflet. Especially if it be
distributed gratis it will be taken up by one person or another, all the
more willingly if its display title refers to a question about which
everybody is talking at the moment. Perhaps the reader, after having
read through such a leaflet more or less thoughtfully, will have new
viewpoints and mental attitudes and may give his attention to a new
movement. But with these, even in the best of cases, only a small
impulse will be given, but no definite conviction will be created;
because the leaflet can do nothing more than draw attention to something
and can become effective only by bringing the reader subsequently into a
situation where he is more fundamentally informed and instructed. Such
instruction must always be given at the mass assembly.

Mass assemblies are also necessary for the reason that, in attending
them, the individual who felt himself formerly only on the point of
joining the new movement, now begins to feel isolated and in fear of
being left alone as he acquires for the first time the picture of a
great community which has a strengthening and encouraging effect on most
people. Brigaded in a company or battalion, surrounded by his
companions, he will march with a lighter heart to the attack than if he
had to march alone. In the crowd he feels himself in some way thus
sheltered, though in reality there are a thousand arguments against such
a feeling.

Mass demonstrations on the grand scale not only reinforce the will of
the individual but they draw him still closer to the movement and help
to create an ESPRIT DE CORPS. The man who appears first as the
representative of a new doctrine in his place of business or in his
factory is bound to feel himself embarrassed and has need of that
reinforcement which comes from the consciousness that he is a member of
a great community. And only a mass demonstration can impress upon him
the greatness of this community. If, on leaving the shop or mammoth
factory, in which he feels very small indeed, he should enter a vast
assembly for the first time and see around him thousands and thousands
of men who hold the same opinions; if, while still seeking his way, he
is gripped by the force of mass-suggestion which comes from the
excitement and enthusiasm of three or four thousand other men in whose
midst he finds himself; if the manifest success and the concensus of
thousands confirm the truth and justice of the new teaching and for the
first time raise doubt in his mind as to the truth of the opinions held
by himself up to now--then he submits himself to the fascination of
what we call mass-suggestion. The will, the yearning and indeed the
strength of thousands of people are in each individual. A man who enters
such a meeting in doubt and hesitation leaves it inwardly fortified; he
has become a member of a community.

The National Socialist Movement should never forget this, and it should
never allow itself to be influenced by these bourgeois duffers who think
they know everything but who have foolishly gambled away a great State,
together with their own existence and the supremacy of their own class.
They are overflowing with ability; they can do everything, and they know
everything. But there is one thing they have not known how to do, and
that is how to save the German people from falling into the arms of
Marxism. In that they have shown themselves most pitiably and miserably
impotent. So that the present opinion they have of themselves is only
equal to their conceit. Their pride and stupidity are fruits of the same
tree.

If these people try to disparage the importance of the spoken word
to-day, they do it only because they realize--God be praised and
thanked--how futile all their own speechifying has been.




CHAPTER VII



THE CONFLICT WITH THE RED FORCES


In 1919-20 and also in 1921 I attended some of the bourgeois meetings.
Invariably I had the same feeling towards these as towards the
compulsory dose of castor oil in my boyhood days. It just had to be
taken because it was good for one: but it certainly tasted unpleasant.
If it were possible to tie ropes round the German people and forcibly
drag them to these bourgeois meetings, keeping them there behind barred
doors and allowing nobody to escape until the meeting closed, then this
procedure might prove successful in the course of a few hundred years.
For my own part, I must frankly admit that, under such circumstances, I
could not find life worth living; and indeed I should no longer wish to
be a German. But, thank God, all this is impossible. And so it is not
surprising that the sane and unspoilt masses shun these 'bourgeois mass
meetings' as the devil shuns holy water.

I came to know the prophets of the bourgeois WELTANSCHAUUNG, and I was
not surprised at what I learned, as I knew that they attached little
importance to the spoken word. At that time I attended meetings of the
Democrats, the German Nationalists, the German People's Party and the
Bavarian People's Party (the Centre Party of Bavaria). What struck me at
once was the homogeneous uniformity of the audiences. Nearly always they
were made up exclusively of party members. The whole affair was more
like a yawning card party than an assembly of people who had just passed
through a great revolution. The speakers did all they could to maintain
this tranquil atmosphere. They declaimed, or rather read out, their
speeches in the style of an intellectual newspaper article or a learned
treatise, avoiding all striking expressions. Here and there a feeble
professorial joke would be introduced, whereupon the people sitting at
the speaker's table felt themselves obliged to laugh--not loudly but
encouragingly and with well-bred reserve.

And there were always those people at the speaker's table. I once
attended a meeting in the Wagner Hall in Munich. It was a demonstration
to celebrate the anniversary of the Battle of Leipzig. (Note 17) The
speech was delivered or rather read out by a venerable old professor from
one or other of the universities. The committee sat on the platform: one
monocle on the right, another monocle on the left, and in the centre a
gentleman with no monocle. All three of them were punctiliously attired
in morning coats, and I had the impression of being present before a
judge's bench just as the death sentence was about to be pronounced or
at a christening or some more solemn religious ceremony. The so-called
speech, which in printed form may have read quite well, had a disastrous
effect. After three quarters of an hour the audience fell into a sort of
hypnotic trance, which was interrupted only when some man or woman left
the hall, or by the clatter which the waitresses made, or by the
increasing yawns of slumbering individuals. I had posted myself behind
three workmen who were present either out of curiosity or because they
were sent there by their parties. From time to time they glanced at one
another with an ill-concealed grin, nudged one another with the elbow,
and then silently left the hall. One could see that they had no
intention whatsoever of interrupting the proceedings, nor indeed was it
necessary to interrupt them. At long last the celebration showed signs
of drawing to a close. After the professor, whose voice had meanwhile
become more and more inaudible, finally ended his speech, the gentleman
without the monocle delivered a rousing peroration to the assembled
'German sisters and brothers.' On behalf of the audience and himself he
expressed gratitude for the magnificent lecture which they had just
heard from Professor X and emphasized how deeply the Professor's words
had moved them all. If a general discussion on the lecture were to take
place it would be tantamount to profanity, and he thought he was voicing
the opinion of all present in suggesting that such a discussion should
not be held. Therefore, he would ask the assembly to rise from their
seats and join in singing the patriotic song, WIR SIND EIN EINIG VOLK
VON BRU"DERN. The proceedings finally closed with the anthem, DEUTSCHLAND
U"BER ALLES.

[Note 17. The Battle of Leipzig (1813), where the Germans inflicted an
overwhelming defeat on Napoleon, was the decisive event which put an end
to the French occupation of Germany.

The occupation had lasted about twenty years. After the Great War, and
the partial occupation of Germany once again by French forces, the
Germans used to celebrate the anniversary of the Battle of Leipzig as a
symbol of their yearning.]

And then they all sang. It appeared to me that when the second verse was
reached the voices were fewer and that only when the refrain came on
they swelled loudly. When we reached the third verse my belief was
confirmed that a good many of those present were not very familiar with
the text.

But what has all this to do with the matter when such a song is sung
wholeheartedly and fervidly by an assembly of German nationals?

After this the meeting broke up and everyone hurried to get outside, one
to his glass of beer, one to a cafe, and others simply into the fresh
air.

Out into the fresh air! That was also my feeling. And was this the way
to honour an heroic struggle in which hundreds of thousands of Prussians
and Germans had fought? To the devil with it all!

That sort of thing might find favour with the Government, it being
merely a 'peaceful' meeting. The Minister responsible for law and order
need not fear that enthusiasm might suddenly get the better of public
decorum and induce these people to pour out of the room and, instead of
dispersing to beer halls and cafes, march in rows of four through the
town singing DEUTSCHLAND hoch in Ehren and causing some unpleasantness
to a police force in need of rest.

No. That type of citizen is of no use to anyone.

On the other hand the National Socialist meetings were by no means
'peaceable' affairs. Two distinct WELTANSCHHAUUNGen raged in bitter
opposition to one another, and these meetings did not close with the
mechanical rendering of a dull patriotic song but rather with a
passionate outbreak of popular national feeling.

It was imperative from the start to introduce rigid discipline into our
meetings and establish the authority of the chairman absolutely. Our
purpose was not to pour out a mixture of soft-soap bourgeois talk; what
we had to say was meant to arouse the opponents at our meetings! How
often did they not turn up in masses with a few individual agitators
among them and, judging by the expression on all their faces, ready to
finish us off there and then.

Yes, how often did they not turn up in huge numbers, those supporters of
the Red Flag, all previously instructed to smash up everything once and
for all and put an end to these meetings. More often than not everything
hung on a mere thread, and only the chairman's ruthless determination
and the rough handling by our ushers baffled our adversaries'
intentions. And indeed they had every reason for being irritated.

The fact that we had chosen red as the colour for our posters sufficed
to attract them to our meetings. The ordinary bourgeoisie were very
shocked to see that, we had also chosen the symbolic red of Bolshevism
and they regarded this as something ambiguously significant. The
suspicion was whispered in German Nationalist circles that we also were
merely another variety of Marxism, perhaps even Marxists suitably
disguised, or better still, Socialists. The actual difference between
Socialism and Marxism still remains a mystery to these people up to this
day. The charge of Marxism was conclusively proved when it was
discovered that at our meetings we deliberately substituted the words
'Fellow-countrymen and Women' for 'Ladies and Gentlemen' and addressed
each other as 'Party Comrade'. We used to roar with laughter at these
silly faint-hearted bourgeoisie and their efforts to puzzle out our
origin, our intentions and our aims.

We chose red for our posters after particular and careful deliberation,
our intention being to irritate the Left, so as to arouse their
attention and tempt them to come to our meetings--if only in order to
break them up--so that in this way we got a chance of talking to the
people.

In those years' it was indeed a delightful experience to follow the
constantly changing tactics of our perplexed and helpless adversaries.
First of all they appealed to their followers to ignore us and keep away
from our meetings. Generally speaking this appeal was heeded. But, as
time went on, more and more of their followers gradually found their way
to us and accepted our teaching. Then the leaders became nervous and
uneasy. They clung to their belief that such a development should not be
ignored for ever, and that terror must be applied in order to put an end
to it.

Appeals were then made to the 'class-conscious proletariat' to attend
our meetings in masses and strike with the clenched hand of the
proletarian at the representatives of a 'monarchist and reactionary
agitation'.

Our meetings suddenly became packed with work-people fully
three-quarters of an hour before the proceedings were scheduled to
begin. These gatherings resembled a powder cask ready to explode at any
moment; and the fuse was conveniently at hand. But matters always turned
out differently. People came as enemies and left, not perhaps prepared
to join us, yet in a reflective mood and disposed critically to examine
the correctness of their own doctrine. Gradually as time went on my
three-hour lectures resulted in supporters and opponents becoming united
in one single enthusiastic group of people. Every signal for the
breaking-up of the meeting failed. The result was that the opposition
leaders became frightened and once again looked for help to those
quarters that had formerly discountenanced these tactics and, with some
show of right, had been of the opinion that on principle the workers
should be forbidden to attend our meetings.

Then they did not come any more, or only in small numbers. But after a
short time the whole game started all over again. The instructions to
keep away from us were ignored; the comrades came in steadily increasing
numbers, until finally the advocates of the radical tactics won the day.
We were to be broken up.

Yet when, after two, three and even eight meetings, it was realized that
to break up these gatherings was easier said than done and that every
meeting resulted in a decisive weakening of the red fighting forces,
then suddenly the other password was introduced: 'Proletarians, comrades
and comradesses, avoid meetings of the National Socialist agitators'.

The same eternally alternating tactics were also to be observed in the
Red Press. Soon they tried to silence us but discovered the uselessness
of such an attempt. After that they swung round to the opposite tactics.
Daily 'reference' was made to us solely for the purpose of absolutely
ridiculing us in the eyes of the working-classes. After a time these
gentlemen must have felt that no harm was being done to us, but that, on
the contrary, we were reaping an advantage in that people were asking
themselves why so much space was being devoted to a subject which was
supposed to be so ludicrous. People became curious. Suddenly there was a
change of tactics and for a time we were treated as veritable criminals
against mankind. One article followed the other, in which our criminal
intentions were explained and new proofs brought forward to support what
was said. Scandalous tales, all of them fabricated from start to finish,
were published in order to help to poison the public mind. But in a
short time even these attacks also proved futile; and in fact they
assisted materially because they attracted public attention to us.

In those days I took up the standpoint that it was immaterial whether
they laughed at us or reviled us, whether they depicted us as fools or
criminals; the important point was that they took notice of us and that
in the eyes of the working-classes we came to be regarded as the only
force capable of putting up a fight. I said to myself that the followers
of the Jewish Press would come to know all about us and our real aims.

One reason why they never got so far as breaking up our meetings was
undoubtedly the incredible cowardice displayed by the leaders of the
opposition. On every critical occasion they left the dirty work to the
smaller fry whilst they waited outside the halls for the results of the
break up.

We were exceptionally well informed in regard to our opponents'
intentions, not only because we allowed several of our party colleagues
to remain members of the Red organizations for reasons of expediency,
but also because the Red wire-pullers, fortunately for us, were
afflicted with a degree of talkativeness that is still unfortunately
very prevalent among Germans. They could not keep their own counsel, and
more often than not they started cackling before the proverbial egg was
laid. Hence, time and again our precautions were such that Red agitators
had no inkling of how near they were to being thrown out of the
meetings.

This state of affairs compelled us to take the work of safeguarding our
meetings into our own hands. No reliance could be placed on official
protection. On the contrary; experience showed that such protection
always favoured only the disturbers. The only real outcome of police
intervention would be that the meeting would be dissolved, that is to
say, closed. And that is precisely what our opponents granted.

Generally speaking, this led the police to adopt a procedure which, to
say the least, was a most infamous sample of official malpractice. The
moment they received information of a threat that the one or other
meeting was to be broken up, instead of arresting the would-be
disturbers, they promptly advised the innocent parties that the meeting
was forbidden. This step the police proclaimed as a 'precautionary
measure in the interests of law and order'.

The political work and activities of decent people could therefore
always be hindered by desperate ruffians who had the means at their
disposal. In the name of peace and order State authority bowed down to
these ruffians and demanded that others should not provoke them. When
National Socialism desired to hold meetings in certain parts and the
labour unions declared that their members would resist, then it was not
these blackmailers that were arrested and gaoled. No. Our meetings were
forbidden by the police. Yes, this organ of the law had the unspeakable
impudence to advise us in writing to this effect in innumerable
instances. To avoid such eventualities, it was necessary to see to it
that every attempt to disturb a meeting was nipped in the bud. Another
feature to be taken into account in this respect is that all meetings
which rely on police protection must necessarily bring discredit to
their promoters in the eyes of the general public. Meetings that are
only possible with the protective assistance of a strong force of police
convert nobody; because in order to win over the lower strata of the
people there must be a visible show of strength on one's own side. In
the same way that a man of courage will win a woman's affection more
easily than a coward, so a heroic movement will be more successful in
winning over the hearts of a people than a weak movement which relies on
police support for its very existence.

It is for this latter reason in particular that our young movement was
to be charged with the responsibility of assuring its own existence,
defending itself; and conducting its own work of smashing the Red
opposition.

The work of organizing the protective measures for our meetings was
based on the following:

(1) An energetic and psychologically judicious way of conducting the
meeting.

(2) An organized squad of troops to maintain order.

In those days we and no one else were masters of the situation at our
meetings and on no occasion did we fail to emphasize this. Our opponents
fully realized that any provocation would be the occasion of throwing
them out of the hall at once, whatever the odds against us. At meetings,
particularly outside Munich, we had in those days from five to eight
hundred opponents against fifteen to sixteen National Socialists; yet we
brooked no interference, for we were ready to be killed rather than
capitulate. More than once a handful of party colleagues offered a
heroic resistance to a raging and violent mob of Reds. Those fifteen or
twenty men would certainly have been overwhelmed in the end had not the
opponents known that three or four times as many of themselves would
first get their skulls cracked. Arid that risk they were not willing to
run. We had done our best to study Marxist and bourgeois methods of
conducting meetings, and we had certainly learnt something.

The Marxists had always exercised a most rigid discipline so that the
question of breaking up their meetings could never have originated in
bourgeois quarters. This gave the Reds all the more reason for acting on
this plan. In time they not only became past-masters in this art but in
certain large districts of the REICH they went so far as to declare that
non-Marxist meetings were nothing less than a cause of' provocation
against the proletariat. This was particularly the case when the
wire-pullers suspected that a meeting might call attention to their own
transgressions and thus expose their own treachery and chicanery.
Therefore the moment such a meeting was announced to be held a howl of
rage went up from the Red Press. These detractors of the law nearly
always turned first to the authorities and requested in imperative and
threatening language that this 'provocation of the proletariat' be
stopped forthwith in the 'interests of law and order'. Their language
was chosen according to the importance of the official blockhead they
were dealing with and thus success was assured. If by chance the
official happened to be a true German--and not a mere figurehead--and he
declined the impudent request, then the time-honoured appeal to stop
'provocation of the proletariat' was issued together with instructions
to attend such and such a meeting on a certain date in full strength for
the purpose of 'putting a stop to the disgraceful machinations of the
bourgeoisie by means of the proletarian fist'.

The pitiful and frightened manner in which these bourgeois meetings are
conducted must be seen in order to be believed. Very frequently these
threats were sufficient to call off such a meeting at once. The feeling
of fear was so marked that the meeting, instead of commencing at eight
o'clock, very seldom was opened before a quarter to nine or nine
o'clock. The Chairman thereupon did his best, by showering compliments
on the 'gentleman of the opposition' to prove how he and all others
present were pleased (a palpable lie) to welcome a visit from men who as
yet were not in sympathy with them for the reason that only by mutual
discussion (immediately agreed to) could they be brought closer together
in mutual understanding. Apart from this the Chairman also assured them
that the meeting had no intention whatsoever of interfering with the
professed convictions of anybody. Indeed no. Everyone had the right to
form and hold his own political views, but others should be allowed to
do likewise. He therefore requested that the speaker be allowed to
deliver his speech without interruption--the speech in any case not
being a long affair. People abroad, he continued, would thus not come to
regard this meeting as another shameful example of the bitter fraternal
strife that is raging in Germany. And so on and so forth

The brothers of the Left had little if any appreciation for that sort of
talk; the speaker had hardly commenced when he was shouted down. One
gathered the impression at times that these speakers were graceful for
being peremptorily cut short in their martyr-like discourse. These
bourgeois toreadors left the arena in the midst of a vast uproar, that
is to say, provided that they were not thrown down the stairs with
cracked skulls, which was very often the case.

Therefore, our methods of organization at National Socialist meetings
were something quite strange to the Marxists. They came to our meetings
in the belief that the little game which they had so often played could
as a matter of course be also repeated on us. "To-day we shall finish
them off." How often did they bawl this out to each other on entering
the meeting hall, only to be thrown out with lightning speed before they
had time to repeat it.

In the first place our method of conducting a meeting was entirely
different. We did not beg and pray to be allowed to speak, and we did
not straightway give everybody the right to hold endless discussions. We
curtly gave everyone to understand that we were masters of the meeting
and that we would do as it pleased us and that everyone who dared to
interrupt would be unceremoniously thrown out. We stated clearly our
refusal to accept responsibility for anyone treated in this manner. If
time permitted and if it suited us, a discussion would be allowed to
take place. Our party colleague would now make his speech.... That kind
of talk was sufficient in itself to astonish the Marxists.

Secondly, we had at our disposal a well-trained and organized body of
men for maintaining order at our meetings. On the other hand the
bourgeois parties protected their meetings with a body of men better
classified as ushers who by virtue of their age thought they were
entitled to-authority and respect. But as Marxism has little or no
respect for these things, the question of suitable self-protection at
these bourgeois meetings was, so to speak, in practice non-existent.

When our political meetings first started I made it a special point to
organize a suitable defensive squad--a squad composed chiefly of young
men. Some of them were comrades who had seen active service with me;
others were young party members who, right from the start, had been
trained and brought up to realize that only terror is capable of
smashing terror--that only courageous and determined people had made a
success of things in this world and that, finally, we were fighting for
an idea so lofty that it was worth the last drop of our blood. These
young men had been brought up to realize that where force replaced
common sense in the solution of a problem, the best means of defence was
attack and that the reputation of our hall-guard squads should stamp us
as a political fighting force and not as a debating society.

And it was extraordinary how eagerly these boys of the War generation
responded to this order. They had indeed good reason for being bitterly
disappointed and indignant at the miserable milksop methods employed by
the bourgeoise.

Thus it became clear to everyone that the Revolution had only been
possible thanks to the dastardly methods of a bourgeois government. At
that time there was certainly no lack of man-power to suppress the
revolution, but unfortunately there was an entire lack of directive
brain power. How often did the eyes of my young men light up with
enthusiasm when I explained to them the vital functions connected with
their task and assured them time and again that all earthly wisdom is
useless unless it be supported by a measure of strength, that the gentle
goddess of Peace can only walk in company with the god of War, and that
every great act of peace must be protected and assisted by force. In
this way the idea of military service came to them in a far more
realistic form--not in the fossilized sense of the souls of decrepit
officials serving the dead authority of a dead State, but in the living
realization of the duty of each man to sacrifice his life at all times
so that his country might live.

How those young men did their job!

Like a swarm of hornets they tackled disturbers at our meetings,
regardless of superiority of numbers, however great, indifferent to
wounds and bloodshed, inspired with the great idea of blazing a trail
for the sacred mission of our movement.

As early as the summer of 1920 the organization of squads of men as hall
guards for maintaining order at our meetings was gradually assuming
definite shape. By the spring of 1921 this body of men were sectioned
off into squads of one hundred, which in turn were sub-divided into
smaller groups.

The urgency for this was apparent, as meanwhile the number of our
meetings had steadily increased. We still frequently met in the Munich
Hofbra"uhaus but more frequently in the large meeting halls throughout
the city itself. In the autumn and winter of 1920-1921 our meetings in
the Bu"rgerbra"u and Munich Kindlbra"u had assumed vast proportions and it
was always the same picture that presented itself; namely, meetings of
the NSDAP (The German National Socialist Labour Party) were always
crowded out so that the police were compelled to close and bar the doors
long before proceedings commenced.

The organization of defence guards for keeping order at our meetings
cleared up a very difficult question. Up till then the movement had
possessed no party badge and no party flag. The lack of these tokens was
not only a disadvantage at that time but would prove intolerable in the
future. The disadvantages were chiefly that members of the party
possessed no outward broken of membership which linked them together,
and it was absolutely unthinkable that for the future they should remain
without some token which would be a symbol of the movement and could be
set against that of the International.

More than once in my youth the psychological importance of such a symbol
had become clearly evident to me and from a sentimental point of view
also it was advisable. In Berlin, after the War, I was present at a
mass-demonstration of Marxists in front of the Royal Palace and in the
Lustgarten. A sea of red flags, red armlets and red flowers was in
itself sufficient to give that huge assembly of about 120,000 persons an
outward appearance of strength. I was now able to feel and understand
how easily the man in the street succumbs to the hypnotic magic of such
a grandiose piece of theatrical presentation.

The bourgeoisie, which as a party neither possesses or stands for any
WELTANSCHAUUNG, had therefore not a single banner. Their party was
composed of 'patriots' who went about in the colours of the REICH. If
these colours were the symbol of a definite WELTANSCHAUUNG then one
could understand the rulers of the State regarding this flag as
expressive of their own WELTANSCHAUUNG, seeing that through their
efforts the official REICH flag was expressive of their own
WELTANSCHAUUNG.

But in reality the position was otherwise.

The REICH was morticed together without the aid of the German
bourgeoisie and the flag itself was born of the War and therefore merely
a State flag possessing no importance in the sense of any particular
ideological mission.

Only in one part of the German-speaking territory--in
German-Austria--was there anything like a bourgeois party flag in
evidence. Here a section of the national bourgeoisie selected the 1848
colours (black, red and gold) as their party flag and therewith created
a symbol which, though of no importance from a weltanschauliche
viewpoint, had, nevertheless, a revolutionary character from a national
point of view. The most bitter opponents of this flag at that time, and
this should not be forgotten to-day, were the Social Democrats and the
Christian Socialists or clericals. They, in particular, were the ones
who degraded and besmirched these colours in the same way as in 1918
they dragged black, white and red into the gutter. Of course, the black,
red and gold of the German parties in the old Austria were the colours
of the year 1848: that is to say, of a period likely to be regarded as
somewhat visionary, but it was a period that had honest German souls as
its representatives, although the Jews were lurking unseen as
wire-pullers in the background. It was high treason and the shameful
enslavement of the German territory that first of all made these colours
so attractive to the Marxists of the Centre Party; so much so that
to-day they revere them as their most cherished possession and use them
as their own banners for the protection of the flag they once foully
besmirched.

It is a fact, therefore, that, up till 1920, in opposition to the
Marxists there was no flag that would have stood for a consolidated
resistance to them. For even if the better political elements of the
German bourgeoisie were loath to accept the suddenly discovered black,
red and gold colours as their symbol after the year 1918, they
nevertheless were incapable of counteracting this with a future
programme of their own that would correspond to the new trend of
affairs. At the most, they had a reconstruction of the old REICH in
mind.

And it is to this way of thinking that the black, white and red colours
of the old REICH are indebted for their resurrection as the flag of our
so-called national bourgeois parties.

It was obvious that the symbol of a re'gime which had been overthrown by
the Marxists under inglorious circumstances was not now worthy to serve
as a banner under which the same Marxism was to be crushed in its turn.
However much any decent German may love and revere those old colours,
glorious when placed side by side in their youthful freshness, when he
had fought under them and seen the sacrifice of so many lives, that flag
had little value for the struggle of the future.

In our Movement I have always adopted the standpoint that it was a
really lucky thing for the German nation that it had lost its old flag
(Note 18). This standpoint of mine was in strong contrast to that of the
bourgeois politicians. It may be immaterial to us what the Republic does
under its flag. But let us be deeply grateful to fate for having so
graciously spared the most glorious war flag for all time from becoming
an ignominious rag. The REICH of to-day, which sells itself and its
people, must never be allowed to adopt the honourable and heroic black,
white and red colours.

[Note 18. The flag of the German Empire, founded in 1871, was
Black-White-Red. This was discarded in 1918 and Black-Red-Gold was chosen
as the flag of the German Republic founded at Weimar in 1919. The flag
designed by Hitler--red with a white disc in the centre, bearing the
black swastika--is now the national flag.]

As long as the November outrage endures, that outrage may continue to
bear its own external sign and not steal that of an honourable past. Our
bourgeois politicians should awaken their consciences to the fact that
whoever desires this State to have the black, white and red colours is
pilfering from the past. The old flag was suitable only for the old
REICH and, thank Heaven, the Republic chose the colours best suited to
itself.

This was also the reason why we National Socialists recognized that
hoisting the old colours would be no symbol of our special aims; for we
had no wish to resurrect from the dead the old REICH which had been
ruined through its own blunders, but to build up a new State.

The Movement which is fighting Marxism to-day along these lines must
display on its banner the symbol of the new State.

The question of the new flag, that is to say the form and appearance it
must take, kept us very busy in those days. Suggestions poured in from
all quarters, which although well meant were more or less impossible in
practice. The new flag had not only to become a symbol expressing our
own struggle but on the other hand it was necessary that it should prove
effective as a large poster. All those who busy themselves with the
tastes of the public will recognize and appreciate the great importance
of these apparently petty matters. In hundreds of thousands of cases a
really striking emblem may be the first cause of awakening interest in a
movement.

For this reason we declined all suggestions from various quarters for
identifying our movement by means of a white flag with the old State or
rather with those decrepit parties whose sole political objective is the
restoration of past conditions. And, apart from this, white is not a
colour capable of attracting and focusing public attention. It is a
colour suitable only for young women's associations and not for a
movement that stands for reform in a revolutionary period.

Black was also suggested--certainly well-suited to the times, but
embodying no significance to empress the will behind our movement. And,
finally, black is incapable of attracting attention.

White and blue was discarded, despite its admirable aesthetic appeal--as
being the colours of an individual German Federal State--a State that,
unfortunately, through its political attitude of particularist
narrow-mindedness did not enjoy a good reputation. And, generally
speaking, with these colours it would have been difficult to attract
attention to our movement. The same applies to black and white.

Black, red and gold did not enter the question at all.

And this also applies to black, white and red for reasons already
stated. At least, not in the form hitherto in use. But the effectiveness
of these three colours is far superior to all the others and they are
certainly the most strikingly harmonious combination to be found.

I myself was always for keeping the old colours, not only because I, as
a soldier, regarded them as my most sacred possession, but because in
their aesthetic effect, they conformed more than anything else to my
personal taste. Accordingly I had to discard all the innumerable
suggestions and designs which had been proposed for the new movement,
among which were many that had incorporated the swastika into the old
colours. I, as leader, was unwilling to make public my own design, as it
was possible that someone else could come forward with a design just as
good, if not better, than my own. As a matter of fact, a dental surgeon
from Starnberg submitted a good design very similar to mine, with only
one mistake, in that his swastika with curved corners was set upon a
white background.

After innumerable trials I decided upon a final form--a flag of red
material with a white disc bearing in its centre a black swastika. After
many trials I obtained the correct proportions between the dimensions of
the flag and of the white central disc, as well as that of the swastika.
And this is how it has remained ever since.

At the same time we immediately ordered the corresponding armlets for
our squad of men who kept order at meetings, armlets of red material, a
central white disc with the black swastika upon it. Herr Fu"ss, a Munich
goldsmith, supplied the first practical and permanent design.

The new flag appeared in public in the midsummer of 1920. It suited our
movement admirably, both being new and young. Not a soul had seen this
flag before; its effect at that time was something akin to that of a
blazing torch. We ourselves experienced almost a boyish delight when one
of the ladies of the party who had been entrusted with the making of the
flag finally handed it over to us. And a few months later those of us in
Munich were in possession of six of these flags. The steadily increasing
strength of our hall guards was a main factor in popularizing the
symbol.

And indeed a symbol it proved to be.

Not only because it incorporated those revered colours expressive of our
homage to the glorious past and which once brought so much honour to the
German nation, but this symbol was also an eloquent expression of the
will behind the movement. We National Socialists regarded our flag as
being the embodiment of our party programme. The red expressed the
social thought underlying the movement. White the national thought. And
the swastika signified the mission allotted to us--the struggle for the
victory of Aryan mankind and at the same time the triumph of the ideal
of creative work which is in itself and always will be anti-Semitic.

Two years later, when our squad of hall guards had long since grown into
storm detachments, it seemed necessary to give this defensive
organization of a young WELTANSCHAUUNG a particular symbol of victory,
namely a Standard. I also designed this and entrusted the execution of
it to an old party comrade, Herr Gahr, who was a goldsmith. Ever since
that time this Standard has been the distinctive token of the National
Socialist struggle.

The increasing interest taken in our meetings, particularly during 1920,
compelled us at times to hold two meetings a week. Crowds gathered round
our posters; the large meeting halls in the town were always filled and
tens of thousands of people, who had been led astray by the teachings of
Marxism, found their way to us and assisted in the work of fighting for
the liberation of the REICH. The public in Munich had got to know us. We
were being spoken about. The words 'National Socialist' had become
common property to many and signified for them a definite party
programme. Our circle of supporters and even of members was constantly
increasing, so that in the winter of 1920-21 we were able to appear as a
strong party in Munich.

At that time there was no party in Munich with the exception of the
Marxist parties--certainly no nationalist party--which was able to hold
such mass demonstrations as ours. The Munich Kindl Hall, which held
5,000 people, was more than once overcrowded and up till then there was
only one other hall, the Krone Circus Hall, into which we had not
ventured.

At the end of January 1921 there was again great cause for anxiety in
Germany. The Paris Agreement, by which Germany pledged herself to pay
the crazy sum of a hundred milliards of gold marks, was to be confirmed
by the London Ultimatum.

Thereupon an old-established Munich working committee, representative of
so-called VO"LKISCH groups, deemed it advisable to call for a public
meeting of protest. I became nervous and restless when I saw that a lot
of time was being wasted and nothing undertaken. At first a meeting was
suggested in the KO"NIG PLATZ; on second thoughts this was turned down,
as someone feared the proceedings might be wrecked by Red elements.
Another suggestion was a demonstration in front of the Feldherrn Hall,
but this also came to nothing. Finally a combined meeting in the Munich
Kindl Hall was suggested. Meanwhile, day after day had gone by; the big
parties had entirely ignored the terrible event, and the working
committee could not decide on a definite date for holding the
demonstration.

On Tuesday, February 1st, I put forward an urgent demand for a final
decision. I was put off until Wednesday. On that day I demanded to be
told clearly if and when the meeting was to take place. The reply was
again uncertain and evasive, it being stated that it was 'intended' to
arrange a demonstration that day week.

At that I lost all patience and decided to conduct a demonstration of
protest on my own. At noon on Wednesday I dictated in ten minutes the
text of the poster and at the same time hired the Krone Circus Hall for
the next day, February 3rd.

In those days this was a tremendous venture. Not only because of the
uncertainty of filling that vast hall, but also because of the risk of
the meeting being wrecked.

Numerically our squad of hall guards was not strong enough for this vast
hall. I was also uncertain about what to do in case the meeting was
broken up--a huge circus building being a different proposition from an
ordinary meeting hall. But events showed that my fears were misplaced,
the opposite being the case. In that vast building a squad of wreckers
could be tackled and subdued more easily than in a cramped hall.

One thing was certain: A failure would throw us back for a long time to
come. If one meeting was wrecked our prestige would be seriously injured
and our opponents would be encouraged to repeat their success. That
would lead to sabotage of our work in connection with further meetings
and months of difficult struggle would be necessary to overcome this.

We had only one day in which to post our bills, Thursday. Unfortunately
it rained on the morning of that day and there was reason to fear that
many people would prefer to remain at home rather than hurry to a
meeting through rain and snow, especially when there was likely to be
violence and bloodshed.

And indeed on that Thursday morning I was suddenly struck with fear that
the hall might never be filled to capacity, which would have made me
ridiculous in the eyes of the working committee. I therefore immediately
dictated various leaflets, had them printed and distributed in the
afternoon. Of course they contained an invitation to attend the meeting.

Two lorries which I hired were draped as much as possible in red, each
had our new flag hoisted on it and was then filled with fifteen or
twenty members of our party. Orders were given the members to canvas the
streets thoroughly, distribute leaflets and conduct propaganda for the
mass meeting to be held that evening. It was the first time that lorries
had driven through the streets bearing flags and not manned by Marxists.
The public stared open-mouthed at these red-draped cars, and in the
outlying districts clenched fists were angrily raised at this new
evidence of 'provocation of the proletariat'. Were not the Marxists the
only ones entitled to hold meetings and drive about in motor lorries?

At seven o'clock in the evening only a few had gathered in the circus
hall. I was being kept informed by telephone every ten minutes and was
becoming uneasy. Usually at seven or a quarter past our meeting halls
were already half filled; sometimes even packed. But I soon found out
the reason why I was uneasy. I had entirely forgotten to take into
account the huge dimensions of this new meeting place. A thousand people
in the Hofbra"uhaus was quite an impressive sight, but the same number in
the Circus building was swallowed up in its dimensions and was hardly
noticeable. Shortly afterwards I received more hopeful reports and at a
quarter to eight I was informed that the hall was three-quarters filled,
with huge crowds still lined up at the pay boxes. I then left for the
meeting.

I arrived at the Circus building at two minutes past eight. There was
still a crowd of people outside, partly inquisitive people and many
opponents who preferred to wait outside for developments.

When I entered the great hall I felt the same joy I had felt a year
previously at the first meeting in the Munich Hofbra"u Banquet Hall; but
it was not until I had forced my way through the solid wall of people
and reached the platform that I perceived the full measure of our
success. The hall was before me, like a huge shell, packed with
thousands and thousands of people. Even the arena was densely crowded.
More than 5,600 tickets had been sold and, allowing for the unemployed,
poor students and our own detachments of men for keeping order, a crowd
of about 6,500 must have been present.

My theme was 'Future or Downfall' and I was filled with joy at the
conviction that the future was represented by the crowds that I was
addressing.

I began, and spoke for about two and a half hours. I had the feeling
after the first half-hour that the meeting was going to be a big
success. Contact had been at once established with all those thousands
of individuals. After the first hour the speech was already being
received by spontaneous outbreaks of applause, but after the second hour
this died down to a solemn stillness which I was to experience so often
later on in this same hall, and which will for ever be remembered by all
those present. Nothing broke this impressive silence and only when the
last word had been spoken did the meeting give vent to its feelings by
singing the national anthem.

I watched the scene during the next twenty minutes, as the vast hall
slowly emptied itself, and only then did I leave the platform, a happy
man, and made my way home.

Photographs were taken of this first meeting in the Krone Circus Hall in
Munich. They are more eloquent than words to demonstrate the success of
this demonstration. The bourgeois papers reproduced photographs and
reported the meeting as having been merely 'nationalist' in character;
in their usual modest fashion they omitted all mention of its promoters.

Thus for the first time we had developed far beyond the dimensions of an
ordinary party. We could no longer be ignored. And to dispel all doubt
that the meeting was merely an isolated success, I immediately arranged
for another at the Circus Hall in the following week, and again we had
the same success. Once more the vast hall was overflowing with people;
so much so that I decided to hold a third meeting during the following
week, which also proved a similar success.

After these initial successes early in 1921 I increased our activity in
Munich still further. I not only held meetings once a week, but during
some weeks even two were regularly held and very often during midsummer
and autumn this increased to three. We met regularly at the Circus Hall
and it gave us great satisfaction to see that every meeting brought us
the same measure of success.

The result was shown in an ever-increasing number of supporters and
members into our party.

Naturally, such success did not allow our opponents to sleep soundly. At
first their tactics fluctuated between the use of terror and silence in
our regard. Then they recognized that neither terror nor silence could
hinder the progress of our movement. So they had recourse to a supreme
act of terror which was intended to put a definite end to our activities
in the holding of meetings.

As a pretext for action along this line they availed themselves of a
very mysterious attack on one of the Landtag deputies, named Erhard
Auer. It was declared that someone had fired several shots at this man
one evening. This meant that he was not shot but that an attempt had
been made to shoot him. A fabulous presence of mind and heroic courage
on the part of Social Democratic leaders not only prevented the
sacrilegious intention from taking effect but also put the crazy
would-be assassins to flight, like the cowards that they were. They were
so quick and fled so far that subsequently the police could not find
even the slightest traces of them. This mysterious episode was used by
the organ of the Social Democratic Party to arouse public feeling
against the movement, and while doing this it delivered its old
rigmarole about the tactics that were to be employed the next time.
Their purpose was to see to it that our movement should not grow but
should be immediately hewn down root and branch by the hefty arm of the
proletariat.

A few days later the real attack came. It was decided finally to
interrupt one of our meetings which was billed to take place in the
Munich Hofbra"uhaus, and at which I myself was to speak.

On November 4th, 1921, in the evening between six and seven o'clock I
received the first precise news that the meeting would positively be
broken up and that to carry out this action our adversaries had decided
to send to the meeting great masses of workmen employed in certain 'Red'
factories.

It was due to an unfortunate accident that we did not receive this news
sooner. On that day we had given up our old business office in the
Sternecker Gasse in Munich and moved into other quarters; or rather we
had given up the old offices and our new quarters were not yet in
functioning order. The telephone arrangements had been cut off by the
former tenants and had not yet been reinstalled. Hence it happened that
several attempts made that day to inform us by telephone of the break-up
which had been planned for the evening did not reach us.

Consequently our order troops were not present in strong force at that
meeting. There was only one squad present, which did not consist of the
usual one hundred men, but only of about forty-six. And our telephone
connections were not yet sufficiently organized to be able to give the
alarm in the course of an hour or so, so that a sufficiently powerful
number of order troops to deal with the situation could be called. It
must also be added that on several previous occasions we had been
forewarned, but nothing special happened. The old proverb, 'Revolutions
which were announced have scarcely ever come off', had hitherto been
proved true in our regard.

Possibly for this reason also sufficiently strong precautions had not
been taken on that day to cope with the brutal determination of our
opponents to break up our meeting.

Finally, we did not believe that the Hofbra"uhaus in Munich was suitable
for the interruptive tactics of our adversaries. We had feared such a
thing far more in the bigger halls, especially that of the Krone Circus.
But on this point we learned a very serviceable lesson that evening.
Later, we studied this whole question according to a scientific system
and arrived at results, both interesting and incredible, and which
subsequently were an essential factor in the direction of our
organization and in the tactics of our Storm Troops.

When I arrived in the entrance halt of the Hofbra"uhaus at 7.45 that
evening I realizcd that there could be no doubt as to what the 'Reds'
intended. The hall was filled, and for that reason the police had barred
the entrances. Our adversaries, who had arrived very early, were in the
hall, and our followers were for the most part outside. The small
bodyguard awaited me at the entrance. I had the doors leading to the
principal hall closed and then asked the bodyguard of forty-five or
forty-six men to come forward. I made it clear to the boys that perhaps
on that evening for the first time they would have to show their
unbending and unbreakable loyalty to the movement and that not one of us
should leave the hall unless carried out dead. I added that I would
remain in the hall and that I did not believe that one of them would
abandon me, and that if I saw any one of them act the coward I myself
would personally tear off his armlet and his badge. I demanded of them
that they should come forward if the slightest attempt to sabotage the
meeting were made and that they must remember that the best defence is
always attack.

I was greeted with a triple 'HEIL' which sounded more hoarse and violent
than usual.

Then I advanced through the hall and could take in the situation with my
own eyes. Our opponents sat closely huddled together and tried to pierce
me through with their looks. Innumerable faces glowing with hatred and
rage were fixed on me, while others with sneering grimaces shouted at me
together. Now they would 'Finish with us. We must look out for our
entrails. To-day they would smash in our faces once and for all.' And
there were other expressions of an equally elegant character. They knew
that they were there in superior numbers and they acted accordingly.

Yet we were able to open the meeting; and I began to speak. In the Hall
of the Hofbra"uhaus I stood always at the side, away from the entry and
on top of a beer table. Therefore I was always right in the midst of the
audience. Perhaps this circumstance was responsible for creating a
certain feeling and a sense of agreement which I never found elsewhere.

Before me, and especially towards my left, there were only opponents,
seated or standing. They were mostly robust youths and men from the
Maffei Factory, from Kustermann's, and from the factories on the Isar,
etc. Along the right-hand wall of the hall they were thickly massed
quite close to my table. They now began to order litre mugs of beer, one
after the other, and to throw the empty mugs under the table. In this
way whole batteries were collected. I should have been surprised had
this meeting ended peacefully.

In spite of all the interruptions, I was able to speak for about an hour
and a half and I felt as if I were master of the situation. Even the
ringleaders of the disturbers appeared to be convinced of this; for they
steadily became more uneasy, often left the hall, returned and spoke to
their men in an obviously nervous way.

A small psychological error which I committed in replying to an
interruption, and the mistake of which I myself was conscious the moment
the words had left my mouth, gave the sign for the outbreak.

There were a few furious outbursts and all in a moment a man jumped on a
seat and shouted "Liberty". At that signal the champions of liberty
began their work.

In a few moments the hall was filled with a yelling and shrieking mob.
Numerous beer-mugs flew like howitzers above their heads. Amid this
uproar one heard the crash of chair legs, the crashing of mugs, groans
and yells and screams.

It was a mad spectacle. I stood where I was and could observe my boys
doing their duty, every one of them.

There I had the chance of seeing what a bourgeois meeting could be.

The dance had hardly begun when my Storm Troops, as they were called
from that day onwards, launched their attack. Like wolves they threw
themselves on the enemy again and again in parties of eight or ten and
began steadily to thrash them out of the hall. After five minutes I
could see hardly one of them that was not streaming with blood. Then I
realized what kind of men many of them were, above all my brave Maurice
Hess, who is my private secretary to-day, and many others who, even
though seriously wounded, attacked again and again as long as they could
stand on their feet. Twenty minutes long the pandemonium continued. Then
the opponents, who had numbered seven or eight hundred, had been driven
from the hall or hurled out headlong by my men, who had not numbered
fifty. Only in the left corner a big crowd still stood out against our
men and put up a bitter fight. Then two pistol shots rang out from the
entrance to the hall in the direction of the platform and now a wild din
of shooting broke out from all sides. One's heart almost rejoiced at
this spectacle which recalled memories of the War.

At that moment it was not possible to identify the person who had fired
the shots. But at any rate I could see that my boys renewed the attack
with increased fury until finally the last disturbers were overcome and
flung out of the hall.

About twenty-five minutes had passed since it all began. The hall looked
as if a bomb had exploded there. Many of my comrades had to be bandaged
and others taken away. But we remained masters of the situation. Hermann
Essen, who was chairman of the meeting, announced: "The meeting will
continue. The speaker shall proceed." So I went on with my speech.

When we ourselves declared the meeting at an end an excited police
officer rushed in, waved his hands and declared: "The meeting is
dissolved."

Without wishing to do so I had to laugh at this example of the law's
delay. It was the authentic constabulary officiosiousness. The smaller
they are the greater they must always appear.

That evening we learned a real lesson. And our adversaries never forgot
the lesson they had received.

Up to the autumn of 1923 the Mu"nchener post did not again mention the
clenched fists of the Proletariat.




CHAPTER VIII



THE STRONG IS STRONGEST WHEN ALONE


In the preceding chapter I mentioned the existence of a co-operative
union between the German patriotic associations. Here I shall deal
briefly with this question.

In speaking of a co-operative union we generally mean a group of
associations which, for the purpose of facilitating their work,
establish mutual relations for collaborating with one another along
certain lines, appointing a common directorate with varying powers and
thenceforth carrying out a common line of action. The average citizen is
pleased and reassured when he hears that these associations, by
establishing a co-operative union among one another, have at long last
discovered a common platform on which they can stand united and have
eliminated all grounds of mutual difference. Therewith a general
conviction arises, to the effect that such a union is an immense gain in
strength and that small groups which were weak as long as they stood
alone have now suddenly become strong. Yet this conviction is for the
most part a mistaken one.

It will be interesting and, in my opinion, important for the better
understanding of this question if we try to get a clear notion of how it
comes about that these associations, unions, etc., are established, when
all of them declare that they have the same ends in view. In itself it
would be logical to expect that one aim should be fought for by a single
association and it would be more reasonable if there were not a number
of associations fighting for the same aim. In the beginning there was
undoubtedly only one association which had this one fixed aim in view.
One man proclaimed a truth somewhere and, calling for the solution of a
definite question, fixed his aim and founded a movement for the purpose
of carrying his views into effect.

That is how an association or a party is founded, the scope of whose
programme is either the abolition of existing evils or the positive
establishment of a certain order of things in the future.

Once such a movement has come into existence it may lay practical claim
to certain priority rights. The natural course of things would now be
that all those who wish to fight for the same objective as this movement
is striving for should identify themselves with it and thus increase its
strength, so that the common purpose in view may be all the better
served. Especially men of superior intelligence must feel, one and all,
that by joining the movement they are establishing precisely those
conditions which are necessary for practical success in the common
struggle. Accordingly it is reasonable and, in a certain sense,
honest--which honesty, as I shall show later, is an element of very
great importance--that only one movement should be founded for the
purpose of attaining the one aim.

The fact that this does not happen must be attributed to two causes. The
first may almost be described as tragic. The second is a matter for
pity, because it has its foundation in the weaknesses of human nature.
But, on going to the bottom of things, I see in both causes only facts
which give still another ground for strengthening our will, our energy
and intensity of purpose; so that finally, through the higher
development of the human faculties, the solution of the problem in
question may be rendered possible.

The tragic reason why it so often happens that the pursuit of one
definite task is not left to one association alone is as follows:
Generally speaking, every action carried out on the grand style in this
world is the expression of a desire that has already existed for a long
time in millions of human hearts, a longing which may have been
nourished in silence. Yes, it may happen that throughout centuries men
may have been yearning for the solution of a definite problem, because
they have been suffering under an unendurable order of affairs, without
seeing on the far horizon the coming fulfilment of the universal
longing. Nations which are no longer capable of finding an heroic
deliverance from such a sorrowful fate may be looked upon as effete.
But, on the other hand, nothing gives better proof of the vital forces
of a people and the consequent guarantee of its right to exist than that
one day, through a happy decree of Destiny, a man arises who is capable
of liberating his people from some great oppression, or of wiping out
some bitter distress, or of calming the national soul which had been
tormented through its sense of insecurity, and thus fulfilling what had
long been the universal yearning of the people.

An essential characteristic of what are called the great questions of
the time is that thousands undertake the task of solving them and that
many feel themselves called to this task: yea, even that Destiny itself
has proposed many for the choice, so that through the free play of
forces the stronger and bolder shall finally be victorious and to him
shall be entrusted the task of solving the problem.

Thus it may happen that for centuries many are discontented with the
form in which their religious life expresses itself and yearn for a
renovation of it; and so it may happen that through this impulse of the
soul some dozens of men may arise who believe that, by virtue of their
understanding and their knowledge, they are called to solve the
religious difficulties of the time and accordingly present themselves as
the prophets of a new teaching or at least as declared adversaries of
the standing beliefs.

Here also it is certain that the natural law will take its course,
inasmuch as the strongest will be destined to fulfil the great mission.
But usually the others are slow to acknowledge that only one man is
called. On the contrary, they all believe that they have an equal right
to engage in the solution of the diffculties in question and that they
are equally called to that task. Their contemporary world is generally
quite unable to decide which of all these possesses the highest gifts
and accordingly merits the support of all.

So in the course of centuries, or indeed often within the same epoch,
different men establish different movements to struggle towards the same
end. At least the end is declared by the founders of the movements to be
the same, or may be looked upon as such by the masses of the people. The
populace nourishes vague desires and has only general opinions, without
having any precise notion of their own ideals and desires or of the
question whether and how it is impossible for these ideals and desires
to be fulfilled.

The tragedy lies in the fact that many men struggle to reach the same
objective by different roads, each one genuinely believing in his own

mission and holding himself in duty bound to follow his own road without
any regard for the others.

These movements, parties, religious groups, etc., originate entirely
independently of one another out of the general urge of the time, and
all with a view to working towards the same goal. It may seem a tragic
thing, at least at first sight, that this should be so, because people
are too often inclined to think that forces which are dispersed in
different directions would attain their ends far more quickly and more
surely if they were united in one common effort. But that is not so. For
Nature herself decides according to the rules of her inexorable logic.
She leaves these diverse groups to compete with one another and dispute
the palm of victory and thus she chooses the clearest, shortest and
surest way along which she leads the movement to its final goal.

How could one decide from outside which is the best way, if the forces
at hand were not allowed free play, if the final decision were to rest
with the doctrinaire judgment of men who are so infatuated with their
own superior knowledge that their minds are not open to accept the
indisputable proof presented by manifest success, which in the last
analysis always gives the final confirmation of the justice of a course
of action.

Hence, though diverse groups march along different routes towards the
same objective, as soon as they come to know that analogous efforts are
being made around them, they will have to study all the more carefully
whether they have chosen the best way and whether a shorter way may not
be found and how their efforts can best be employed to reach the
objective more quickly.

Through this rivalry each individual protagonist develops his faculties
to a still higher pitch of perfection and the human race has frequently
owed its progress to the lessons learned from the misfortunes of former
attempts which have come to grief. Therefore we may conclude that we
come to know the better ways of reaching final results through a state
of things which at first sight appeared tragic; namely, the initial
dispersion of individual efforts, wherein each group was unconsciously
responsible for such dispersion.

In studying the lessons of history with a view to finding a way for the
solution of the German problem, the prevailing opinion at one time was
that there were two possible paths along which that problem might be
solved and that these two paths should have united from the very
beginning. The chief representatives and champions of these two paths
were Austria and Prussia respectively, Habsburg and Hohenzollern. All
the rest, according to this prevalent opinion, ought to have entrusted
their united forces to the one or the other party. But at that time the
path of the most prominent representative, the Habsburg, would have been
taken, though the Austrian policy would never have led to the foundation
of a united German REICH.

Finally, a strong and united German REICH arose out of that which many
millions of Germans deplored in their hearts as the last and most
terrible manifestation of our fratricidal strife. The truth is that the
German Imperial Crown was retrieved on the battle field of Ko"niggra"tz
and not in the fights that were waged before Paris, as was commonly
asserted afterwards.

Thus the foundation of the German REICH was not the consequence of any
common will working along common lines, but it was much more the outcome
of a deliberate struggle for hegemony, though the protagonists were
often hardly conscious of this. And from this struggle Prussia finally
came out victorious. Anybody who is not so blinded by partisan politics
as to deny this truth will have to agree that the so-called wisdom of
men would never have come to the same wise decision as the wisdom of
Life itself, that is to say, the free play of forces, finally brought to
realization. For in the German lands of two hundred years before who
would seriously have believed that Hohenzollern Prussia, and not
Habsburg, would become the germ cell, the founder and the tutor of the
new REICH? And, on the other hand, who would deny to-day that Destiny
thus acted wiser than human wisdom. Who could now imagine a German REICH
based on the foundations of an effete and degenerate dynasty?

No. The general evolution of things, even though it took a century of
struggle, placed the best in the position that it had merited.

And that will always be so. Therefore it is not to be regretted if
different men set out to attain the same objective. In this way the
strongest and swiftest becomes recognized and turns out to be the
victor.

Now there is a second cause for the fact that often in the lives of
nations several movements which show the same characteristics strive
along different ways to reach what appears to be the same goal. This
second cause is not at all tragic, but just something that rightly calls
forth pity. It arises from a sad mixture of envy, jealousy, ambition,
and the itch for taking what belongs to others. Unfortunately these
failings are often found united in single specimens of the human
species.

The moment a man arises who profoundly understands the distress of his
people and, having diagnosed the evil with perfect accuracy, takes
measures to cure it; the moment he fixes his aim and chooses the means
to reach it--then paltry and pettifogging people become all attention
and eagerly follow the doings of this man who has thus come before the
public gaze. Just like sparrows who are apparently indifferent, but in
reality are firmly intent on the movements of the fortunate companion
with the morsel of bread so that they may snatch it from him if he
should momentarily relax his hold on it, so it is also with the human
species. All that is needed is that one man should strike out on a new
road and then a crowd of poltroons will prick up their ears and begin to
sniff for whatever little booty may possibly lie at the end of that
road. The moment they think they have discovered where the booty is to
be gathered they hurry to find another way which may prove to be quicker
in reaching that goal.

As soon as a new movement is founded and has formulated a definite
programme, people of that kind come forward and proclaim that they are
fighting for the same cause. This does not imply that they are ready
honestly to join the ranks of such a movement and thus recognize its
right of priority. It implies rather that they intend to steal the
programme and found a new party on it. In doing this they are shameless
enough to assure the unthinking public that for a long time they had
intended to take the same line of action as the other has now taken, and
frequently they succeed in thus placing themselves in a favourable
light, instead of arousing the general disapprobation which they justly
deserve. For it is a piece of gross impudence to take what has already
been inscribed on another's flag and display it on one's own, to steal
the programme of another, and then to form a separate group as if all
had been created by the new founder of this group. The impudence of such
conduct is particularly demonstrated when the individuals who first
caused dispersion and disruption by their new foundation are those
who--as experience has shown--are most emphatic in proclaiming the
necessity of union and unity the moment they find they cannot catch up
with their adversary's advance.

It is to that kind of conduct that the so-called 'patriotic
disintegration' is to be attributed.

Certainly in the years 1918--1919 the founding of a multitude of new
groups, parties, etc., calling themselves 'Patriotic,' was a natural
phenomenon of the time, for which the founders were not at all
responsible. By 1920 the National Socialist German Labour Party had
slowly crystallized from all these parties and had become supreme. There
could be no better proof of the sterling honesty of certain individual
founders than the fact that many of them decided, in a really admirable
manner, to sacrifice their manifestly less successful movements to the
stronger movement, by joining it unconditionally and dissolving their
own.

This is specially true in regard to Julius Streicher, who was at that
time the protagonist of the German Socialist party in Nu"rnberg. The
National Socialist German Labour Party had been founded with similar
aims in view, but quite independently of the other. I have already said
that Streicher, then a teacher in Nu"rnberg, was the chief protagonist of
the German Socialist Party. He had a sacred conviction of the mission
and future of his own movement. As soon, however, as the superior
strength and stronger growth of the National Socialist Party became
clear and unquestionable to his mind, he gave up his work in the German
Socialist Party and called upon his followers to fall into line with the
National Socialist German Labour Party, which had come out victorious
from the mutual contest, and carry on the fight within its ranks for the
common cause. The decision was personally a difficult one for him, but
it showed a profound sense of honesty.

When that first period of the movement was over there remained no
further dispersion of forces: for their honest intentions had led the
men of that time to the same honourable, straightforward and just
conclusion. What we now call the 'patriotic disintegration' owes its
existence exclusively to the second of the two causes which I have
mentioned. Ambitious men who at first had no ideas of their own, and
still less any concept of aims to be pursued, felt themselves 'called'
exactly at that moment in which the success of the National Socialist
German Labour Party became unquestionable.

Suddenly programmes appeared which were mere transcripts of ours. Ideas
were proclaimed which had been taken from us. Aims were set up on behalf
of which we had been fighting for several years, and ways were mapped
out which the National Socialists had for a long time trodden. All kinds
of means were resorted to for the purpose of trying to convince the
public that, although the National Socialist German Labour Party had now
been for a long time in existence, it was found necessary to establish
these new parties. But all these phrases were just as insincere as the
motives behind them were ignoble.

In reality all this was grounded only on one dominant motive. That
motive was the personal ambition of the founders, who wished to play a
part in which their own pigmy talents could contribute nothing original
except the gross effrontery which they displayed in appropriating the
ideas of others, a mode of conduct which in ordinary life is looked upon
as thieving.

At that time there was not an idea or concept launched by other people
which these political kleptomaniacs did not seize upon at once for the
purpose of applying to their own base uses. Those who did all this were
the same people who subsequently, with tears in their eyes, profoundly
deplored the 'patriotic disintegration' and spoke unceasingly about the
'necessity of unity'. In doing this they nurtured the secret hope that
they might be able to cry down the others, who would tire of hearing
these loud-mouthed accusations and would end up by abandoning all claim
to the ideas that had been stolen from them and would abandon to the
thieves not only the task of carrying these ideas into effect but also
the task of carrying on the movements of which they themselves were the
original founders.

When that did not succeed, and the new enterprises, thanks to the paltry
mentality of their promoters, did not show the favourable results which
had been promised beforehand, then they became more modest in their
pretences and were happy if they could land themselves in one of the
so-called 'co-operative unions'.

At that period everything which could not stand on its own feet joined
one of those co-operative unions, believing that eight lame people
hanging on to one another could force a gladiator to surrender to them.

But if among all these cripples there was one who was sound of limb he
had to use all his strength to sustain the others and thus he himself
was practically paralysed.

We ought to look upon the question of joining these working coalitions
as a tactical problem, but, in coming to a decision, we must never
forget the following fundamental principle:

Through the formation of a working coalition associations which are weak
in themselves can never be made strong, whereas it can and does happen
not infrequently that a strong association loses its strength by joining
in a coalition with weaker ones. It is a mistake to believe that a
factor of strength will result from the coalition of weak groups;
because experience shows that under all forms and all conditions the
majority represents the duffers and poltroons. Hence a multiplicity of
associations, under a directorate of many heads, elected by these same
associations, is abandoned to the control of poltroons and weaklings.
Through such a coalition the free play of forces is paralysed, the
struggle for the selection of the best is abolished and therewith the
necessary and final victory of the healthier and stronger is impeded.
Coalitions of that kind are inimical to the process of natural
development, because for the most part they hinder rather than advance
the solution of the problem which is being fought for.

It may happen that, from considerations of a purely tactical kind, the
supreme command of a movement whose goal is set in the future will enter
into a coalition with such associations for the treatment of special
questions and may also stand on a common platform with them, but this
can be only for a short and limited period. Such a coalition must not be
permanent, if the movement does not wish to renounce its liberating
mission. Because if it should become indissolubly tied up in such a
combination it would lose the capacity and the right to allow its own
forces to work freely in following out a natural development, so as to
overcome rivals and attain its own objective triumphantly.

It must never be forgotten that nothing really great in this world has
ever been achieved through coalitions, but that such achievements have
always been due to the triumph of the individual. Successes achieved
through coalitions, owing to the very nature of their source, carry the
germs of future disintegration in them from the very start; so much so
that they have already forfeited what has been achieved. The great
revolutions which have taken place in human thought and have veritably
transformed the aspect of the world would have been inconceivable and
impossible to carry out except through titanic struggles waged between
individual natures, but never as the enterprises of coalitions.

And, above all things, the People's State will never be created by the
desire for compromise inherent in a patriotic coalition, but only by the
iron will of a single movement which has successfully come through in
the struggle with all the others.




CHAPTER IX



FUNDAMENTAL IDEAS REGARDING THE NATURE AND ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOPS


The strength of the old state rested on three pillars: the monarchical
form of government, the civil service, and the army. The Revolution of
1918 abolished the form of government, dissolved the army and abandoned
the civil service to the corruption of party politics. Thus the
essential supports of what is called the Authority of the State were
shattered. This authority nearly always depends on three elements, which
are the essential foundations of all authority.

Popular support is the first element which is necessary for the creation
of authority. But an authority resting on that foundation alone is still
quite frail, uncertain and vacillating. Hence everyone who finds himself
vested with an authority that is based only on popular support must take
measures to improve and consolidate the foundations of that authority by
the creation of force. Accordingly we must look upon power, that is to
say, the capacity to use force, as the second foundation on which all
authority is based. This foundation is more stable and secure, but not
always stronger, than the first. If popular support and power are united
together and can endure for a certain time, then an authority may arise
which is based on a still stronger foundation, namely, the authority of
tradition. And, finally, if popular support, power, and tradition are
united together, then the authority based on them may be looked upon as
invincible.

In Germany the Revolution abolished this last foundation. There was no
longer even a traditional authority. With the collapse of the old REICH,
the suppression of the monarchical form of government, the destruction
of all the old insignia of greatness and the imperial symbols, tradition
was shattered at a blow. The result was that the authority of the State
was shaken to its foundations.

The second pillar of statal authority, namely POWER, also ceased to
exist. In order to carry through the Revolution it was necessary to
dissolve that body which had hitherto incorporated the organized force
and power of the State, namely, the Army. Indeed, some detached
fragments of the Army itself had to be employed as fighting elements in
the Revolution. The Armies at the front were not subjected in the same
measure to this process of disruption; but as they gradually left
farther behind them the fields of glory on which they had fought
heroically for four-and-half years, they were attacked by the solvent
acid that had permeated the Fatherland; and when they arrived at the
demobilizing centres they fell into that state of confusion which was
styled voluntary obedience in the time of the Soldiers' Councils.

Of course it was out of the question to think of founding any kind of
authority on this crowd of mutineering soldiers, who looked upon
military service as a work of eight hours per day. Therefore the second
element, that which guarantees the stability of authority, was also
abolished and the Revolution had only the original element, popular
support, on which to build up its authority. But this basis was
extraordinarily insecure. By means of a few violent thrusts the
Revolution had shattered the old statal edifice to its deepest
foundations, but only because the normal equilibrium within the social
structure of the nation had already been destroyed by the war.

Every national body is made up of three main classes. At one extreme we
have the best of the people, taking the word 'best' here to indicate
those who are highly endowed with the civic virtues and are noted for
their courage and their readiness to sacrifice their private interests.
At the other extreme are the worst dregs of humanity, in whom vice and
egotistic interests prevail. Between these two extremes stands the third
class, which is made up of the broad middle stratum, who do not
represent radiant heroism or vulgar vice.

The stages of a nation's rise are accomplished exclusively under the
leadership of the best extreme.

Times of normal and symmetrical development, or of stable conditions,
owe their existence and outwardly visible characteristics to the
preponderating influence of the middle stratum. In this stage the two
extreme classes are balanced against one another; in other words, they
are relatively cancelled out.

Times of national collapse are determined by the preponderating
influence of the worst elements.

It must be noted here, however, that the broad masses, which constitute
what I have called the middle section, come forward and make their
influence felt only when the two extreme sections are engaged in mutual
strife. In case one of the extreme sections comes out victorious the
middle section will readily submit to its domination. If the best
dominate, the broad masses will follow it. Should the worst extreme turn
out triumphant, then the middle section will at least offer no
opposition to it; for the masses that constitute the middle class never
fight their own battles.

The outpouring of blood for four-and-a-half years during the war
destroyed the inner equilibrium between these three sections in so far
as it can be said--though admitting the sacrifices made by the middle
section--that the class which consisted of the best human elements
almost completely disappeared through the loss of so much of its blood
in the war, because it was impossible to replace the truly enormous
quantity of heroic German blood which had been shed during those
four-and-a-half years. In hundreds of thousands of cases it was always a
matter of 'VOLUNTEERS to the front', VOLUNTEERS for patrol and duty,
VOLUNTEER dispatch carriers, VOLUNTEERS for establishing and working
telephonic communications, VOLUNTEERS for bridge-building, VOLUNTEERS
for the submarines, VOLUNTEERS for the air service, VOLUNTEERS for the
storm battalions, and so on, and so on. During four-and-a-half years,
and on thousands of occasions, there was always the call for volunteers
and again for volunteers. And the result was always the same. Beardless
young fellows or fully developed men, all filled with an ardent love for
their country, urged on by their own courageous spirit or by a lofty
sense of their duty--it was always such men who answered the call for
volunteers. Tens of thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands, of such men
came forward, so that that kind of human material steadily grew scarcer
and scarcer. What did not actually fall was maimed in the fight or
gradually had to join the ranks of the crippled because of the wounds
they were constantly receiving, and thus they had to carry on
interminably owing to the steady decrease in the supply of such men. In
1914 whole armies were composed of volunteers who, owing to a criminal
lack of conscience on the part of our feckless parliamentarians, had not
received any proper training in times of peace, and so were thrown as
defenceless cannon-fodder to the enemy. The four hundred thousand who
thus fell or were permanently maimed on the battlefields of Flanders
could not be replaced any more. Their loss was something far more than
merely numerical. With their death the scales, which were already too
lightly weighed at that end of the social structure which represented
our best human quality, now moved upwards rapidly, becoming heavier on
the other end with those vulgar elements of infamy and cowardice--in
short, there was an increase in the elements that constituted the worst
extreme of our population.

And there was something more: While for four-and-a-half years our best
human material was being thinned to an exceptional degree on the
battlefields, our worst people wonderfully succeeded in saving
themselves. For each hero who made the supreme sacrifice and ascended
the steps of Valhalla, there was a shirker who cunningly dodged death on
the plea of being engaged in business that was more or less useful at
home.

And so the picture which presented itself at the end of the war was
this: The great middle stratum of the nation had fulfilled its duty and
paid its toll of blood. One extreme of the population, which was
constituted of the best elements, had given a typical example of its
heroism and had sacrificed itself almost to a man. The other extreme,
which was constituted of the worst elements of the population, had
preserved itself almost intact, through taking advantage of absurd laws
and also because the authorities failed to enforce certain articles of
the military code.

This carefully preserved scum of our nation then made the Revolution.
And the reason why it could do so was that the extreme section composed
of the best elements was no longer there to oppose it. It no longer
existed.

Hence the German Revolution, from the very beginning, depended on only
one section of the population. This act of Cain was not committed by the
German people as such, but by an obscure CANAILLE of deserters,
hooligans, etc.

The man at the front gladly welcomed the end of the strife in which so
much blood had been shed. He was happy to be able to return home and see
his wife and children once again. But he had no moral connection with
the Revolution. He did not like it, nor did he like those who had
provoked and organized it. During the four-and-a-half years of that
bitter struggle at the front he had come to forget the party hyenas at
home and all their wrangling had become foreign to him.

The Revolution was really popular only with a small section of the
German people: namely, that class and their accomplices who had selected
the rucksack as the hall-mark of all honourable citizens in this new
State. They did not like the Revolution for its own sake, though many
people still erroneously believe the contrary, but for the consequences
which followed in its train.

But it was very difficult to establish any abiding authority on the
popular support given to these Marxist freebooters. And yet the young
Republic stood in need of authority at any cost, unless it was ready to
agree to be overthrown after a short period of chaos by an elementary
force assembled from those last elements that still remained among the
best extreme of the population.

The danger which those who were responsible for the Revolution feared
most at that time was that, in the turmoil of the confusion which they
themselves had created, the ground would suddenly be taken from under
their feet, that they might be suddenly seized and transported to
another terrain by an iron grip, such as has often appeared at these
junctures in the history of nations. The Republic must be consolidated
at all costs.

Hence it was forced almost immediately after its foundation to erect
another pillar beside that wavering pillar of popularity. They found
that power must be organized once again in order to procure a firmer
foundation for their authority.

When those who had been the matadors of the Revolution in December 1918,
and January and February 1919, felt the ground trembling beneath their
feet they looked around them for men who would be ready to reinforce
them with military support; for their feeble position was dependent only
on whatever popular favour they enjoyed. The 'anti-militarist' Republic
had need of soldiers. But the first and only pillar on which the
authority of the State rested, namely, its popularity, was grounded only
on a conglomeration of rowdies and thieves, burglars, deserters,
shirkers, etc. Therefore in that section of the nation which we have
called the evil extreme it was useless to look for men who would be
willing to sacrifice their lives on behalf of a new ideal. The section
which had nourished the revolutionary idea and carried out the
Revolution was neither able nor willing to call on the soldiers to
protect it. For that section had no wish whatsoever to organize a
republican State, but to disorganize what already existed and thus
satisfy its own instincts all the better. Their password was not the
organization and construction of the German Republic, but rather the
plundering of it.

Hence the cry for help sent out by the public representatives, who were
beset by a thousand anxieties, did not find any response among this
class of people, but rather provoked a feeling of bitterness and
repudiation. For they looked upon this step as the beginning of a breach
of faith and trust, and in the building up of an authority which was no
longer based on popular support but also on force they saw the beginning
of a hostile move against what the Revolution meant essentially for
those elements. They feared that measures might be taken against the
right to robbery and absolute domination on the part of a horde of
thieves and plunderers--in short, the worst rabble--who had broken out
of the convict prisons and left their chains behind.

The representatives of the people might cry out as much as they liked,
but they could get no help from that rabble. The cries for help were met
with the counter-cry 'traitors' by those very people on whose support
the popularity of the regime was founded.

Then for the first time large numbers of young Germans were found who
were ready to button on the military uniform once again in the service
of 'Peace and Order', as they believed, shouldering the carbine and
rifle and donning the steel helmet to defend the wreckers of the
Fatherland. Volunteer corps were assembled and, although hating the
Revolution, they began to defend it. The practical effect of their
action was to render the Revolution firm and stable. In doing this they
acted in perfect good faith.

The real organizer of the Revolution and the actual wire-puller behind
it, the international Jew, had sized up the situation correctly. The
German people were not yet ripe to be drawn into the blood swamp of
Bolshevism, as the Russian people had been drawn. And that was because
there was a closer racial union between the intellectual classes in
Germany and the manual workers, and also because broad social strata
were permeated with cultured people, such as was the case also in the
other States of Western Europe; but this state of affairs was completely
lacking in Russia. In that country the intellectual classes were mostly
not of Russian nationality, or at least they did not have the racial
characteristics of the Slav. The thin upper layer of intellectuals which
then existed in Russia might be abolished at any time, because there was
no intermediate stratum connecting it organically with the great mass of
the people. There the mental and moral level of the great mass of the
people was frightfully low.

In Russia the moment the agitators were successful in inciting broad
masses of the people, who could not read or write, against the upper
layer of intellectuals who were not in contact with the masses or
permanently linked with them in any way--at that moment the destiny of
Russia was decided, the success of the Revolution was assured. Thereupon
the analphabetic Russian became the slave of his Jewish dictators who,
on their side, were shrewd enough to name their dictatorship 'The
Dictatorship of the People'.

In the case of Germany an additional factor must be taken into account.
Here the Revolution could be carried into effect only if the Army could
first be gradually dismembered. But the real author of the Revolution
and of the process of disintegration in the Army was not the soldier who
had fought at the front but the CANAILLE which more or less shunned the
light and which were either quartered in the home garrisons or were
officiating as 'indispensables' somewhere in the business world at home.
This army was reinforced by ten thousand deserters who, without running
any particular risk, could turn their backs on the Front. At all times
the real poltroon fears nothing so much as death. But at the Front he
had death before his eyes every day in a thousand different shapes.
There has always been one possible way, and one only, of making weak or
wavering men, or even downright poltroons, face their duty steadfastly.
This means that the deserter must be given to understand that his
desertion will bring upon him just the very thing he is flying from. At
the Front a man may die, but the deserter MUST die. Only this draconian
threat against every attempt to desert the flag can have a terrifying
effect, not merely on the individual but also on the mass. Therein lay
the meaning and purpose of the military penal code.

It was a fine belief to think that the great struggle for the life of a
nation could be carried through if it were based solely on voluntary
fidelity arising from and sustained by the knowledge that such a
struggle was necessary. The voluntary fulfilment of one's duty is a
motive that determines the actions of only the best men, but not of the
average type of men. Hence special laws are necessary; just as, for
instance, the law against stealing, which was not made for men who are
honest on principle but for the weak and unstable elements. Such laws
are meant to hinder the evil-doer through their deterrent effect and
thus prevent a state of affairs from arising in which the honest man is
considered the more stupid, and which would end in the belief that it is
better to have a share in the robbery than to stand by with empty hands
or allow oneself to be robbed.

It was a mistake to believe that in a struggle which, according to all
human foresight, might last for several years it would be possible to
dispense with those expedients which the experience of hundreds and even
of thousands of years had proved to be effective in making weak and
unstable men face and fulfil their duty in difficult times and at
moments of great nervous stress.

For the voluntary war hero it is, of course, not necessary to have the
death penalty in the military code, but it is necessary for the cowardly
egoists who value their own lives more than the existence of the
community in the hour of national need. Such weak and characterless
people can be held back from surrendering to their cowardice only by the
application of the heaviest penalties. When men have to struggle with
death every day and remain for weeks in trenches of mire, often very
badly supplied with food, the man who is unsure of himself and begins to
waver cannot be made to stick to his post by threats of imprisonment or
even penal servitude. Only by a ruthless enforcement of the death
penalty can this be effected. For experience shows that at such a time
the recruit considers prison a thousand times more preferable than the
battlefield. In prison at least his precious life is not in danger. The
practical abolition of the death penalty during the war was a mistake
for which we had to pay dearly. Such omission really meant that the
military penal code was no longer recognized as valid. An army of
deserters poured into the stations at the rear or returned home,
especially in 1918, and there began to form that huge criminal
organization with which we were suddenly faced, after November 7th,
1918, and which perpetrated the Revolution.

The Front had nothing to do with all this. Naturally, the soldiers at
the Front were yearning for peace. But it was precisely that fact which
represented a special danger for the Revolution. For when the German
soldiers began to draw near home, after the Armistice, the
revolutionaries were in trepidation and asked the same question again
and again: What will the troops from the Front do? Will the field-greys
stand for it?

During those weeks the Revolution was forced to give itself at least an
external appearance of moderation, if it were not to run the risk of
being wrecked in a moment by a few German divisions. For at that time,
even if the commander of one division alone had made up his mind to
rally the soldiers of his division, who had always remained faithful to
him, in an onslaught to tear down the red flag and put the 'councils' up
against the wall, or, if there was any resistance, to break it with
trench-mortars and hand grenades, that division would have grown into an
army of sixty divisions in less than four weeks. The Jew wire-pullers
were terrified by this prospect more than by anything else; and to
forestall this particular danger they found it necessary to give the
Revolution a certain aspect of moderation. They dared not allow it to
degenerate into Bolshevism, so they had to face the existing conditions
by putting up the hypocritical picture of 'order and tranquillity'.
Hence many important concessions, the appeal to the old civil service
and to the heads of the old Army. They would be needed at least for a
certain time, and only when they had served the purpose of Turks' Heads
could the deserved kick-out be administered with impunity. Then the
Republic would be taken entirely out of the hands of the old servants of
the State and delivered into the claws of the revolutionaries.

They thought that this was the only plan which would succeed in duping
the old generals and civil servants and disarm any eventual opposition
beforehand through the apparently harmless and mild character of the new
regime.

Practical experience has shown to what extent the plan succeeded.

The Revolution, however, was not made by the peaceful and orderly
elements of the nation but rather by rioters, thieves and robbers. And
the way in which the Revolution was developing did not accord with the
intentions of these latter elements; still, on tactical grounds, it was
not possible to explain to them the reasons for the course things were
taking and make that course acceptable.

As Social Democracy gradually gained power it lost more and more the
character of a crude revolutionary party. Of course in their inner
hearts the Social Democrats wanted a revolution; and their leaders had
no other end in view. Certainly not. But what finally resulted was only
a revolutionary programme; but not a body of men who would be able to
carry it out. A revolution cannot be carried through by a party of ten
million members. If such a movement were attempted the leaders would
find that it was not an extreme section of the population on which they
had to depend butrather the broad masses of the middle stratum; hence
the inert masses.

Recognizing all this, already during the war, the Jews caused the famous
split in the Social Democratic Party. While the Social Democratic Party,
conforming to the inertia of its mass following, clung like a leaden
weight on the neck of the national defence, the actively radical
elements were extracted from it and formed into new aggressive columns
for purposes of attack. The Independent Socialist Party and the
Spartacist League were the storm battalions of revolutionary Marxism.
The objective assigned to them was to create a FAIT ACCOMPLI, on the
grounds of which the masses of the Social Democratic Party could take
their stand, having been prepared for this event long beforehand. The
feckless bourgeoisie had been estimated at its just value by the
Marxists and treated EN CANAILLE. Nobody bothered about it, knowing well
that in their canine servility the representatives of an old and
worn-out generation would not be able to offer any serious resistance.

When the Revolution had succeeded and its artificers believed that the
main pillars of the old State had been broken down, the Army returning
from the Front began to appear in the light of a sinister sphinx and
thus made it necessary to slow down the national course of the
Revolution. The main body of the Social Democratic horde occupied the
conquered positions, and the Independent Socialist and Spartacist storm
battalions were side-tracked.

But that did not happen without a struggle.

The activist assault formations that had started the Revolution were
dissatisfied and felt that they had been betrayed. They now wanted to
continue the fight on their own account. But their illimitable
racketeering became odious even to the wire-pullers of the Revolution.
For the Revolution itself had scarcely been accomplished when two camps
appeared. In the one camp were the elements of peace and order; in the
other were those of blood and terror. Was it not perfectly natural that
our bourgeoisie should rush with flying colours to the camp of peace and
order? For once in their lives their piteous political organizations
found it possible to act, inasmuch as the ground had been prepared for
them on which they were glad to get a new footing; and thus to a certain
extent they found themselves in coalition with that power which they
hated but feared. The German political bourgeoisie achieved the high
honour of being able to associate itself with the accursed Marxist
leaders for the purpose of combating Bolshevism.

Thus the following state of affairs took shape as early as December 1918
and January 1919:

A minority constituted of the worst elements had made the Revolution.
And behind this minority all the Marxist parties immediately fell into
step. The Revolution itself had an outward appearance of moderation,
which aroused against it the enmity of the fanatical extremists. These
began to launch hand-grenades and fire machine-guns, occupying public
buildings, thus threatening to destroy the moderate appearance of the
Revolution. To prevent this terror from developing further a truce was
concluded between the representatives of the new regime and the
adherents of the old order, so as to be able to wage a common fight
against the extremists. The result was that the enemies of the Republic
ceased to oppose the Republic as such and helped to subjugate those who
were also enemies of the Republic, though for quite different reasons.
But a further result was that all danger of the adherents of the old
State putting up a fight against the new was now definitely averted.

This fact must always be clearly kept in mind. Only by remembering it
can we understand how it was possible that a nation in which nine-tenths
of the people had not joined in a revolution, where seven-tenths
repudiated it and six-tenths detested it--how this nation allowed the
Revolution to be imposed upon it by the remaining one-tenth of the
population.

Gradually the barricade heroes in the Spartacist camp petered out, and
so did the nationalist patriots and idealists on the other side. As
these two groups steadily dwindled, the masses of the middle stratum, as
always happens, triumphed. The Bourgeoisie and the Marxists met together
on the grounds of accomplished facts, and the Republic began to be
consolidated. At first, however, that did not prevent the bourgeois
parties from propounding their monarchist ideas for some time further,
especially at the elections, whereby they endeavoured to conjure up the
spirits of the dead past to encourage their own feeble-hearted
followers. It was not an honest proceeding. In their hearts they had
broken with the monarchy long ago; but the foulness of the new regime
had begun to extend its corruptive action and make itself felt in the
camp of the bourgeois parties. The common bourgeois politician now felt
better in the slime of republican corruption than in the severe decency
of the defunct State, which still lived in his memory.

As I have already pointed out, after the destruction of the old Army the
revolutionary leaders were forced to strengthen statal authority by
creating a new factor of power. In the conditions that existed they
could do this only by winning over to their side the adherents of a
WELTANSCHAUUNG which was a direct contradiction of their own. From
those elements alone it was possible slowly to create a new army which,
limited numerically by the peace treaties, had to be subsequently
transformed in spirit so as to become an instrument of the new regime.

Setting aside the defects of the old State, which really became the
cause of the Revolution, if we ask how it was possible to carry the
Revolution to a successful issue as a political act, we arrive at the
following conclusions:

l. It was due to a process of dry rot in our conceptions of duty and
obedience.

2. It was due also to the passive timidity of the Parties who were
supposed to uphold the State.

To this the following must be added: The dry rot which attacked our
concepts of duty and obedience was fundamentally due to our wholly
non-national and purely State education. From this came the habit of
confusing means and ends. Consciousness of duty, fulfilment of duty, and
obedience, are not ends in themselves no more than the State is an end
in itself; but they all ought to be employed as means to facilitate and
assure the existence of a community of people who are kindred both
physically and spiritually. At a moment when a nation is manifestly
collapsing and when all outward signs show that it is on the point of
becoming the victim of ruthless oppression, thanks to the conduct of a
few miscreants, to obey these people and fulfil one's duty towards them
is merely doctrinaire formalism, and indeed pure folly; whereas, on the
other hand, the refusal of obedience and fulfilment of duty in such a
case might save the nation from collapse. According to our current
bourgeois idea of the State, if a divisional general received from above
the order not to shoot he fulfilled his duty and therefore acted rightly
in not shooting, because to the bourgeois mind blind formal obedience is
a more valuable thing than the life of a nation. But according to the
National Socialist concept it is not obedience to weak superiors that
should prevail at such moments, in such an hour the duty of assuming
personal responsibility towards the whole nation makes its appearance.

The Revolution succeeded because that concept had ceased to be a vital
force with our people, or rather with our governments, and died down to
something that was merely formal and doctrinaire.

As regards the second point, it may be said that the more profound cause
of the fecklessness of the bourgeois parties must be attributed to the
fact that the most active and upright section of our people had lost
their lives in the war. Apart from that, the bourgeois parties, which
may be considered as the only political formations that stood by the old
State, were convinced that they ought to defend their principles only by
intellectual ways and means, since the use of physical force was
permitted only to the State. That outlook was a sign of the weakness and
decadence which had been gradually developing. And it was also senseless
at a period when there was a political adversary who had long ago
abandoned that standpoint and, instead of this, had openly declared that
he meant to attain his political ends by force whenever that became
possible. When Marxism emerged in the world of bourgeois democracy, as a
consequence of that democracy itself, the appeal sent out by the
bourgeois democracy to fight Marxism with intellectual weapons was a
piece of folly for which a terrible expiation had to be made later on.
For Marxism always professed the doctrine that the use of arms was a
matter which had to be judged from the standpoint of expediency and that
success justified the use of arms.

This idea was proved correct during the days from November 7 to 10,
1918. The Marxists did not then bother themselves in the least about
parliament or democracy, but they gave the death blow to both by turning
loose their horde of criminals to shoot and raise hell.

When the Revolution was over the bourgeois parties changed the title of
their firm and suddenly reappeared, the heroic leaders emerging from
dark cellars or more lightsome storehouses where they had sought refuge.
But, just as happens in the case of all representatives of antiquated
institutions, they had not forgotten their errors or learned anything
new. Their political programme was grounded in the past, even though
they themselves had become reconciled to the new regime. Their aim was
to secure a share in the new establishment, and so they continued the
use of words as their sole weapon.

Therefore after the Revolution the bourgeois parties also capitulated to
the street in a miserable fashion.

When the law for the Protection of the Republic was introduced the
majority was not at first in favour of it. But, confronted with two
hundred thousand Marxists demonstrating in the streets, the bourgeois
'statesmen' were so terror-stricken that they voted for the Law against
their wills, for the edifying reason that otherwise they feared they
might get their heads smashed by the enraged masses on leaving the
Reichstag.

And so the new State developed along its own course, as if there had
been no national opposition at all.

The only organizations which at that time had the strength and courage
to face Marxism and its enraged masses were first of all the volunteer
corps (Note 19), and subsequently the organizations for self-defence, the
civic guards and finally the associations formed by the demobilized
soldiers of the old Army.

[Note 19. After the DEBACLE of 1918 several semi-military associations were
formed by demobilized officers who had fought at the Front. These were
semi-clandestine associations and were known as FREIKORPS (Volunteer
corps). Their principal purpose was to act as rallying centres for the
old nationalist elements.]

But the existence of these bodies did not appreciably change the course
of German history; and that for the following causes:

As the so-called national parties were without influence, because they
had no force which could effectively demonstrate in the street, the
Leagues of Defence could not exercise any influence because they had no
political idea and especially because they had no definite political aim
in view.

The success which Marxism once attained was due to perfect co-operation
between political purposes and ruthless force. What deprived nationalist
Germany of all practical hopes of shaping German development was the
lack of a determined co-operation between brute force and political aims
wisely chosen.

Whatever may have been the aspirations of the 'national' parties, they
had no force whatsoever to fight for these aspirations, least of all in
the streets.

The Defence Leagues had force at their disposal. They were masters of
the street and of the State, but they lacked political ideas and aims on
behalf of which their forces might have been or could have been employed
in the interests of the German nation. The cunning Jew was able in both
cases, by his astute powers of persuasion, in reinforcing an already
existing tendency to make this unfortunate state of affairs permanent
and at the same time to drive the roots of it still deeper.

The Jew succeeded brilliantly in using his Press for the purpose of
spreading abroad the idea that the defence associations were of a
'non-political' character just as in politics he was always astute
enough to praise the purely intellectual character of the struggle and
demand that it must always be kept on that plane

Millions of German imbeciles then repeated this folly without having the
slightest suspicion that by so doing they were, for all practical
purposes, disarming themselves and delivering themselves defenceless
into the hands of the Jew.

But there is a natural explanation of this also. The lack of a great
idea which would re-shape things anew has always meant a limitation in
fighting power. The conviction of the right to employ even the most
brutal weapons is always associated with an ardent faith in the
necessity for a new and revolutionary transformation of the world.

A movement which does not fight for such high aims and ideals will never
have recourse to extreme means.

The appearance of a new and great idea was the secret of success in the
French Revolution. The Russian Revolution owes its triumph to an idea.
And it was only the idea that enabled Fascism triumphantly to subject a
whole nation to a process of complete renovation.

Bourgeois parties are not capable of such an achievement. And it was not
the bourgeois parties alone that fixed their aim in a restoration of the
past. The defence associations also did so, in so far as they concerned
themselves with political aims at all. The spirit of the old war legions
and Kyffauser tendencies lived in them and therewith helped politically
to blunt the sharpest weapons which the German nation then possessed and
allow them to rust in the hands of republican serfs. The fact that these
associations were inspired by the best of intentions in so doing, and
certainly acted in good faith, does not alter in the slightest degree
the foolishness of the course they adopted.

In the consolidated REICHSWEHR Marxism gradually acquired the support of
force, which it needed for its authority. As a logical consequence it
proceeded to abolish those defence associations which it considered
dangerous, declaring that they were now no longer necessary. Some rash
leaders who defied the Marxist orders were summoned to court and sent to
prison. But they all got what they had deserved.

The founding of the National Socialist German Labour Party incited a
movement which was the first to fix its aim, not in a mechanical
restoration of the past--as the bourgeois parties did--but in the
substitution of an organic People's State for the present absurd statal
mechanism.

From the first day of its foundation the new movement took its stand on
the principle that its ideas had to be propagated by intellectual means
but that, wherever necessary, muscular force must be employed to support
this propaganda. In accordance with their conviction of the paramount
importance of the new doctrine, the leaders of the new movement
naturally believe that no sacrifice can be considered too great when it
is a question of carrying through the purpose of the movement.

I have emphasized that in certain circumstances a movement which is
meant to win over the hearts of the people must be ready to defend
itself with its own forces against terrorist attempts on the part of its
adversaries. It has invariably happened in the history of the world that
formal State authority has failed to break a reign of terror which was
inspired by a WELTANSCHAUUNG. It can only be conquered by a new and
different WELTANSCHAUUNG whose representatives are quite as audacious
and determined. The acknowledgment of this fact has always been very
unpleasant for the bureaucrats who are the protectors of the State, but
the fact remains nevertheless. The rulers of the State can guarantee
tranquillity and order only in case the State embodies a WELTANSCHAUUNG
which is shared in by the people as a whole; so that elements of
disturbance can be treated as isolated criminals, instead of being
considered as the champions of an idea which is diametrically opposed to
official opinions. If such should be the case the State may employ the
most violent measures for centuries long against the terror that
threatens it; but in the end all these measures will prove futile, and
the State will have to succumb.

The German State is intensely overrun by Marxism. In a struggle that
went on for seventy years the State was not able to prevent the triumph
of the Marxist idea. Even though the sentences to penal servitude and
imprisonment amounted in all to thousands of years, and even though the
most sanguinary methods of repression were in innumerable instances
threatened against the champions of the Marxist WELTANSCHAUUNG, in the
end the State was forced to capitulate almost completely. The ordinary
bourgeois political leaders will deny all this, but their protests are
futile.

Seeing that the State capitulated unconditionally to Marxism on November
9th, 1918, it will not suddenly rise up tomorrow as the conqueror of
Marxism. On the contrary. Bourgeois simpletons sitting on office stools
in the various ministries babble about the necessity of not governing
against the wishes of the workers, and by the word 'workers' they mean
the Marxists. By identifying the German worker with Marxism not only are
they guilty of a vile falsification of the truth, but they thus try to
hide their own collapse before the Marxist idea and the Marxist
organization.

In view of the complete subordination of the present State to Marxism,
the National Socialist Movement feels all the more bound not only to
prepare the way for the triumph of its idea by appealing to the reason
and understanding of the public but also to take upon itself the
responsibility of organizing its own defence against the terror of the
International, which is intoxicated with its own victory.

I have already described how practical experience in our young movement
led us slowly to organize a system of defence for our meetings. This
gradually assumed the character of a military body specially trained for
the maintenance of order, and tended to develop into a service which
would have its properly organized cadres.

This new formation might resemble the defence associations externally,
but in reality there were no grounds of comparison between the one and
the other.

As I have already said, the German defence organizations did not have
any definite political ideas of their own. They really were only
associations for mutual protection, and they were trained and organized
accordingly, so that they were an illegal complement or auxiliary to the
legal forces of the State. Their character as free corps arose only from
the way in which they were constructed and the situation in which the
State found itself at that time. But they certainly could not claim to
be free corps on the grounds that they were associations formed freely
and privately for the purpose of fighting for their own freely formed
political convictions. Such they were not, despite the fact that some of
their leaders and some associations as such were definitely opposed to
the Republic. For before we can speak of political convictions in the
higher sense we must be something more than merely convinced that the
existing regime is defective. Political convictions in the higher sense
mean that one has the picture of a new regime clearly before one's mind,
feels that the establishment of this regime is an absolute necessity and
sets himself to carry out that purpose as the highest task to which his
life can be devoted.

The troops for the preservation of order, which were then formed under
the National Socialist Movement, were fundamentally different from all
the other defence associations by reason of the fact that our formations
were not meant in any way to defend the state of things created by the
Revolution, but rather that they were meant exclusively to support our
struggle for the creation of a new Germany.

In the beginning this body was merely a guard to maintain order at our
meetings. Its first task was limited to making it possible for us to
hold our meetings, which otherwise would have been completely prevented
by our opponents. These men were at that time trained merely for
purposes of attack, but they were not taught to adore the big stick
exclusively, as was then pretended in stupid German patriotic circles.
They used the cudgel because they knew that it can be made impossible
for high ideals to be put forward if the man who endeavours to propagate
them can be struck down with the cudgel. As a matter of fact, it has
happened in history not infrequently that some of the greatest minds
have perished under the blows of the most insignificant helots. Our
bodyguards did not look upon violence as an end in itself, but they
protected the expositors of ideal aims and purposes against hostile
coercion by violence. They also understood that there was no obligation
to undertake the defence of a State which did not guarantee the defence
of the nation, but that, on the contrary, they had to defend the nation
against those who were threatening to destroy nation and State.

After the fight which took place at the meeting in the Munich
Hofbra"uhaus, where the small number of our guards who were present won
everlasting fame for themselves by the heroic manner in which they
stormed the adversaries; these guards were called THE STORM DETACHMENT.
As the name itself indicates, they represent only a DETACHMENT of the
Movement. They are one constituent element of it, just as is the Press,
the propaganda, educational institutes, and other sections of the Party.

We learned how necessary was the formation of such a body, not only from
our experience on the occasion of that memorable meeting but also when
we sought gradually to carry the Movement beyond Munich and extend it to
the other parts of Germany. Once we had begun to appear as a danger to
Marxism the Marxists lost no opportunity of trying to crush beforehand
all preparations for the holding of National Socialist meetings. When
they did not succeed in this they tried to break up the meeting itself.
It goes without saying that all the Marxist organizations, no matter of
what grade or view, blindly supported the policy and activities of their
representations in every case. But what is to be said of the bourgeois
parties who, when they were reduced to silence by these same Marxists
and in many places did not dare to send their speakers to appear before
the public, yet showed themselves pleased, in a stupid and
incomprehensible manner, every time we received any kind of set-back in
our fight against Marxism. The bourgeois parties were happy to think
that those whom they themselves could not stand up against, but had to
knuckle down to, could not be broken by us. What must be said of those
State officials, chiefs of police, and even cabinet ministers, who
showed a scandalous lack of principle in presenting themselves
externally to the public as 'national' and yet shamelessly acted as the
henchmen of the Marxists in the disputes which we, National Socialists,
had with the latter. What can be said of persons who debased themselves
so far, for the sake of a little abject praise in the Jewish Press, that
they persecuted those men to whose heroic courage and intervention,
regardless of risk, they were partly indebted for not having been torn
to pieces by the Red mob a few years previously and strung up to the
lamp-posts?

One day these lamentable phenomena fired the late but unforgotten
Prefect Po"hner--a man whose unbending straightforwardness forced him to
hate all twisters and to hate them as only a man with an honest heart
can hate--to say: "In all my life I wished to be first a German and then
an official, and I never wanted to mix up with these creatures who, as
if they were kept officials, prostituted themselves before anybody who
could play lord and master for the time being."

It was a specially sad thing that gradually tens of thousands of honest
and loyal servants of the State did not only come under the power of
such people but were also slowly contaminated by their unprincipled
morals. Moreover, these kind of men pursued honest officials with a
furious hatred, degrading them and driving them from their positions,
and yet passed themselves off as 'national' by the aid of their lying
hypocrisy.

From officials of that kind we could expect no support, and only in very
rare instances was it given. Only by building up its own defence could
our movement become secure and attract that amount of public attention
and general respect which is given to those who can defend themselves
when attacked.

As an underlying principle in the internal development of the Storm
Detachment, we came to the decision that not only should it be perfectly
trained in bodily efficiency but that the men should be so instructed as
to make them indomitably convinced champions of the National Socialist
ideas and, finally, that they should be schooled to observe the
strictest discipline. This body was to have nothing to do with the
defence organizations of the bourgeois type and especially not with any
secret organization.

My reasons at that time for guarding strictly against letting the Storm
Detachment of the German National Socialist Labour Party appear as a
defence association were as follows:

On purely practical grounds it is impossible to build up a national
defence organization by means of private associations, unless the State
makes an enormous contribution to it. Whoever thinks otherwise
overestimates his own powers. Now it is entirely out of the question to
form organizations of any military value for a definite purpose on the
principle of so-called 'voluntary discipline'. Here the chief support
for enforcing orders, namely, the power of inflicting punishment, is
lacking. In the autumn, or rather in the spring, of 1919 it was still
possible to raise 'volunteer corps', not only because most of the men
who came forward at that time had been through the school of the old
Army, but also because the kind of duty imposed there constrained the
individual to absolute obedience at least for a definite period of time.

That spirit is entirely lacking in the volunteer defence organizations
of to-day. The more the defence association grows, the weaker its
discipline becomes and so much the less can one demand from the
individual members. Thus the whole organization will more and more
assume the character of the old non-political associations of war
comrades and veterans.

It is impossible to carry through a voluntary training in military
service for larger masses unless one is assured absolute power of
command. There will always be few men who will voluntarily and
spontaneously submit to that kind of obedience which is considered
natural and necessary in the Army.

Moreover, a proper system of military training cannot be developed where
there are such ridiculously scanty means as those at the disposal of the
defence associations. The principal task of such an institution must be
to impart the best and most reliable kind of instruction. Eight years
have passed since the end of the War, and during that time none of our
German youth, at an age when formerly they would have had to do military
service, have received any systematic training at all. The aim of a
defence association cannot be to enlist here and now all those who have
already received a military training; for in that case it could be
reckoned with mathematical accuracy when the last member would leave the
association. Even the younger soldier from 1918 will no longer be fit
for front-line service twenty years later, and we are approaching that
state of things with a rapidity that gives cause for anxiety. Thus the
defence associations must assume more and more the aspect of the old
ex-service men's societies. But that cannot be the meaning and purpose
of an institution which calls itself, not an association of ex-service
men but a DEFENCE association, indicating by this title that it
considers its task to be, not only to preserve the tradition of the old
soldiers and hold them together but also to propagate the idea of
national defence and be able to carry this idea into practical effect,
which means the creation of a body of men who are fit and trained for
military defence.

But this implies that those elements will receive a military training
which up to now have received none. This is something that in practice
is impossible for the defence associations. Real soldiers cannot be made
by a training of one or two hours per week. In view of the enormously
increasing demands which modern warfare imposes on each individual
soldier to-day, a military service of two years is barely sufficient to
transform a raw recruit into a trained soldier. At the Front during the
War we all saw the fearful consequences which our young recruits had to
suffer from their lack of a thorough military training. Volunteer
formations which had been drilled for fifteen or twenty weeks under an
iron discipline and shown unlimited self-denial proved nevertheless to
be no better than cannon fodder at the Front. Only when distributed
among the ranks of the old and experienced soldiers could the young
recruits, who had been trained for four or six months, become useful
members of a regiment. Guided by the 'old men', they adapted themselves
gradually to their task.

In the light of all this, how hopeless must the attempt be to create a
body of fighting troops by a so-called training of one or two hours in
the week, without any definite power of command and without any
considerable means. In that way perhaps one could refresh military
training in old soldiers, but raw recruits cannot thus be transformed
into expert soldiers.

How such a proceeding produces utterly worthless results may also be
demonstrated by the fact that at the same time as these so-called
volunteer defence associations, with great effort and outcry and under
difficulties and lack of necessities, try to educate and train a few
thousand men of goodwill (the others need not be taken into account) for
purposes of national defence, the State teaches our young men democratic
and pacifist ideas and thus deprives millions and millions of their
national instincts, poisons their logical sense of patriotism and
gradually turns them into a herd of sheep who will patiently follow any
arbitrary command. Thus they render ridiculous all those attempts made
by the defence associations to inculcate their ideas in the minds of the
German youth.

Almost more important is the following consideration, which has always
made me take up a stand against all attempts at a so-called military
training on the basis of the volunteer associations.

Assuming that, in spite of all the difficulties just mentioned, a
defence association were successful in training a certain number of
Germans every year to be efficient soldiers, not only as regards their
mental outlook but also as regards bodily efficiency and the expert
handling of arms, the result must necessarily be null and void in a
State whose whole tendency makes it not only look upon such a defensive
formation as undesirable but even positively hate it, because such an
association would completely contradict the intimate aims of the
political leaders, who are the corrupters of this State.

But anyhow, such a result would be worthless under governments which
have demonstrated by their own acts that they do not lay the slightest
importance on the military power of the nation and are not disposed to
permit an appeal to that power only in case that it were necessary for
the protection of their own malignant existence.

And that is the state of affairs to-day. It is not ridiculous to think
of training some ten thousand men in the use of arms, and carry on that
training surreptitiously, when a few years previously the State, having
shamefully sacrificed eight-and-a-half million highly trained soldiers,
not merely did not require their services any more, but, as a mark of
gratitude for their sacrifices, held them up to public contumely. Shall
we train soldiers for a regime which besmirched and spat upon our most
glorious soldiers, tore the medals and badges from their breasts,
trampled on their flags and derided their achievements? Has the present
regime taken one step towards restoring the honour of the old army and
bringing those who destroyed and outraged it to answer for their deeds?
Not in the least. On the contrary, the people I have just referred to
may be seen enthroned in the highest positions under the State to-day.
And yet it was said at Leipzig: "Right goes with might." Since, however,
in our Republic to-day might is in the hands of the very men who
arranged for the Revolution, and since that Revolution represents a most
despicable act of high treason against the nation--yea, the vilest act
in German history--there can surely be no grounds for saying that might
of this character should be enhanced by the formation of a new young
army. It is against all sound reason.

The importance which this State attached, after the Revolution of 1918,
to the reinforcement of its position from the military point of view is
clearly and unmistakably demonstrated by its attitude towards the large
self-defence organizations which existed in that period. They were not
unwelcome as long as they were of use for the personal protection of the
miserable creatures cast up by the Revolution.

But the danger to these creatures seemed to disappear as the debasement
of our people gradually increased. As the existence of the defence
associations no longer implied a reinforcement of the national policy
they became superfluous. Hence every effort was made to disarm them and
suppress them wherever that was possible.

History records only a few examples of gratitude on the part of princes.
But there is not one patriot among the new bourgeoisie who can count on
the gratitude of revolutionary incendiaries and assassins, persons who
have enriched themselves from the public spoil and betrayed the nation.
In examining the problem as to the wisdom of forming these defence
associations I have never ceased to ask: 'For whom shall I train these
young men? For what purpose will they be employed when they will have to
be called out?' The answer to these questions lays down at the same time
the best rule for us to follow.

If the present State should one day have to call upon trained troops of
this kind it would never be for the purpose of defending the interests
of the nation VIS-A`-VIS those of the stranger but rather to protect the
oppressors of the nation inside the country against the danger of a
general outbreak of wrath on the part of a nation which has been
deceived and betrayed and whose interests have been bartered away.

For this reason it was decided that the Storm Detachment of the German
National Socialist Labour Party ought not to be in the nature of a
military organization. It had to be an instrument of protection and
education for the National Socialist Movement and its duties should be
in quite a different sphere from that of the military defence
association.

And, of course, the Storm Detachment should not be in the nature of a
secret organization. Secret organizations are established only for
purposes that are against the law. Therewith the purpose of such an
organization is limited by its very nature. Considering the loquacious
propensities of the German people, it is not possible to build up any
vast organization, keeping it secret at the same time and cloaking its
purpose. Every attempt of that kind is destined to turn out absolutely
futile. It is not merely that our police officials to-day have at their
disposal a staff of eaves-droppers and other such rabble who are ready
to play traitor, like Judas, for thirty pieces of silver and will betray
whatever secrets they can discover and will invent what they would like
to reveal. In order to forestall such eventualities, it is never
possible to bind one's own followers to the silence that is necessary.
Only small groups can become really secret societies, and that only
after long years of filtration. But the very smallness of such groups
would deprive them of all value for the National Socialist Movement.
What we needed then and need now is not one or two hundred dare-devil
conspirators but a hundred thousand devoted champions of our
WELTANSCHAUUNG. The work must not be done through secret conventicles
but through formidable mass demonstrations in public. Dagger and pistol
and poison-vial cannot clear the way for the progress of the movement.
That can be done only by winning over the man in the street. We must
overthrow Marxism, so that for the future National Socialism will be
master of the street, just as it will one day become master of the
State.

There is another danger connected with secret societies. It lies in the
fact that their members often completely misunderstand the greatness of
the task in hand and are apt to believe that a favourable destiny can be
assured for the nation all at once by means of a single murder. Such a
belief may find historical justification by appealing to cases where a
nation had been suffering under the tyranny of some oppressor who at the
same time was a man of genius and whose extraordinary personality
guaranteed the internal solidity of his position and enabled him to
maintain his fearful oppression. In such cases a man may suddenly arise
from the ranks of the people who is ready to sacrifice himself and
plunge the deadly steel into the heart of the hated individual. In order
to look upon such a deed as abhorrent one must have the republican
mentality of that petty CANAILLE who are conscious of their own crime.
But the greatest champion (Note 20) of liberty that the German people have
ever had has glorified such a deed in WILLIAM TELL.

[Note 20. Schiller, who wrote the famous drama of WILLIAM TELL.]

During 1919 and 1920 there was danger that the members of secret
organizations, under the influence of great historical examples and
overcome by the immensity of the nation's misfortunes, might attempt to
wreak vengeance on the destroyers of their country, under the belief
that this would end the miseries of the people. All such attempts were
sheer folly, for the reason that the Marxist triumph was not due to the
superior genius of one remarkable person but rather to immeasurable
incompetence and cowardly shirking on the part of the bourgeoisie. The
hardest criticism that can be uttered against our bourgeoisie is simply
to state the fact that it submitted to the Revolution, even though the
Revolution did not produce one single man of eminent worth. One can
always understand how it was possible to capitulate before a
Robespierre, a Danton, or a Marat; but it was utterly scandalous to go
down on all fours before the withered Scheidemann, the obese Herr
Erzberger, Frederick Ebert, and the innumerable other political pigmies
of the Revolution. There was not a single man of parts in whom one could
see the revolutionary man of genius. Therein lay the country's
misfortune; for they were only revolutionary bugs, Spartacists wholesale
and retail. To suppress one of them would be an act of no consequence.
The only result would be that another pair of bloodsuckers, equally fat
and thirsty, would be ready to take his place.

During those years we had to take up a determined stand against an idea
which owed its origin and foundation to historical episodes that were
really great, but to which our own despicable epoch did not bear the
slightest similarity.

The same reply may be given when there is question of putting somebody
'on the spot' who has acted as a traitor to his country. It would be
ridiculous and illogical to shoot a poor wretch (Note 21) who had betrayed
the position of a howitzer to the enemy while the highest positions of the
government are occupied by a rabble who bartered away a whole empire,
who have on their consciences the deaths of two million men who were
sacrificed in vain, fellows who were responsible for the millions maimed
in the war and who make a thriving business out of the republican regime
without allowing their souls to be disturbed in any way. It would be
absurd to do away with small traitors in a State whose government has
absolved the great traitors from all punishment. For it might easily
happen that one day an honest idealist, who, out of love for his
country, had removed from circulation some miserable informer that had
given information about secret stores of arms might now be called to
answer for his act before the chief traitors of the country. And there
is still an important question: Shall some small traitorous creature be
suppressed by another small traitor, or by an idealist? In the former
case the result would be doubtful and the deed would almost surely be
revealed later on. In the second case a petty rascal is put out of the
way and the life of an idealist who may be irreplaceable is in jeopardy.

[Note 21. The reference here is to those who gave information to the
Allied Commissions about hidden stores of arms in Germany.]

For myself, I believe that small thieves should not be hanged while big
thieves are allowed to go free. One day a national tribunal will have to
judge and sentence some tens of thousands of organizers who were
responsible for the criminal November betrayal and all the consequences
that followed on it. Such an example will teach the necessary lesson,
once and for ever, to those paltry traitors who revealed to the enemy
the places where arms were hidden.

On the grounds of these considerations I steadfastly forbade all
participation in secret societies, and I took care that the Storm
Detachment should not assume such a character. During those years I kept
the National Socialist Movement away from those experiments which were
being undertaken by young Germans who for the most part were inspired
with a sublime idealism but who became the victims of their own deeds,
because they could not ameliorate the lot of their fatherland to the
slightest degree.

If then the Storm Detachment must not be either a military defence
organization or a secret society, the following conclusions must result:

1. Its training must not be organized from the military standpoint but
from the standpoint of what is most practical for party purposes. Seeing
that its members must undergo a good physical training, the place of
chief importance must not be given to military drill but rather to the
practice of sports. I have always considered boxing and ju-jitsu more
important than some kind of bad, because mediocre, training in
rifle-shooting. If the German nation were presented with a body of young
men who had been perfectly trained in athletic sports, who were imbued
with an ardent love for their country and a readiness to take the
initiative in a fight, then the national State could make an army out of
that body within less than two years if it were necessary, provided the
cadres already existed. In the actual state of affairs only the
REICHSWEHR could furnish the cadres and not a defence organization that
was neither one thing nor the other. Bodily efficiency would develop in
the individual a conviction of his superiority and would give him that
confidence which is always based only on the consciousness of one's own
powers. They must also develop that athletic agility which can be
employed as a defensive weapon in the service of the Movement.

2. In order to safeguard the Storm Detachment against any tendency
towards secrecy, not only must the uniform be such that it can
immediately be recognized by everybody, but the large number of its
effectives show the direction in which the Movement is going and which
must be known to the whole public. The members of the Storm Detachment
must not hold secret gatherings but must march in the open and thus, by
their actions, put an end to all legends about a secret organization. In
order to keep them away from all temptations towards finding an outlet
for their activities in small conspiracies, from the very beginning we
had to inculcate in their minds the great idea of the Movement and
educate them so thoroughly to the task of defending this idea that their
horizon became enlarged and that the individual no longer considered it
his mission to remove from circulation some rascal or other, whether big
or small, but to devote himself entirely to the task of bringing about
the establishment of a new National Socialist People's State. In this
way the struggle against the present State was placed on a higher plane
than that of petty revenge and small conspiracies. It was elevated to
the level of a spiritual struggle on behalf of a WELTANSCHAUUNG, for
the destruction of Marxism in all its shapes and forms.

3. The form of organization adopted for the Storm Detachment, as well as
its uniform and equipment, had to follow different models from those of
the old Army. They had to be specially suited to the requirements of the
task that was assigned to the Storm Detachment.

These were the ideas I followed in 1920 and 1921. I endeavoured to
instil them gradually into the members of the young organization. And
the result was that by the midsummer of 1922 we had a goodly number of
formations which consisted of a hundred men each. By the late autumn of
that year these formations received their distinctive uniforms. There
were three events which turned out to be of supreme importance for the
subsequent development of the Storm Detachment.

1. The great mass demonstration against the Law for the Protection of
the Republic. This demonstration was held in the late summer of 1922 on
the KO"NIGS-PLATZ in Munich, by all the patriotic societies. The National
Socialist Movement also participated in it. The march-past of our party,
in serried ranks, was led by six Munich companies of a hundred men each,
followed by the political sections of the Party. Two bands marched with
us and about fifteen flags were carried. When the National Socialists
arrived at the great square it was already half full, but no flag was
flying. Our entry aroused unbounded enthusiasm. I myself had the honour
of being one of the speakers who addressed that mass of about sixty
thousand people.

The demonstration was an overwhelming success; especially because it was
proved for the first time that nationalist Munich could march on the
streets, in spite of all threats from the Reds. Members of the
organization for the defence of the Red Republic endeavoured to hinder
the marching columns by their terrorist activities, but they were
scattered by the companies of the Storm Detachment within a few minutes
and sent off with bleeding skulls. The National Socialist Movement had
then shown for the first time that in future it was determined to
exercise the right to march on the streets and thus take this monopoly
away from the international traitors and enemies of the country.

The result of that day was an incontestable proof that our ideas for the
creation of the Storm Detachment were right, both from the psychological
viewpoint and as to the manner in which this body was organized.

On the basis of this success the enlistment progressed so rapidly that
within a few weeks the number of Munich companies of a hundred men each
became doubled.

2. The expedition to Coburg in October 1922.

Certain People's Societies had decided to hold a German Day at Coburg. I
was invited to take part, with the intimation that they wished me to
bring a following along. This invitation, which I received at eleven
o'clock in the morning, arrived just in time. Within an hour the
arrangements for our participation in the German Congress were ready. I
picked eight hundred men of the Storm Detachment to accompany me. These
were divided into about fourteen companies and had to be brought by
special train from Munich to Coburg, which had just voted by plebiscite
to be annexed to Bavaria. Corresponding orders were given to other
groups of the National Socialist Storm Detachment which had meanwhile
been formed in various other localities.

This was the first time that such a special train ran in Germany. At all
the places where the new members of the Storm Detachment joined us our
train caused a sensation. Many of the people had never seen our flag.
And it made a very great impression.

As we arrived at the station in Coburg we were received by a deputation
of the organizing committee of the German Day. They announced that it
had been 'arranged' at the orders of local trades unions--that is to
say, the Independent and Communist Parties--that we should not enter the
town with our flags unfurled and our band playing (we had a band
consisting of forty-two musicians with us) and that we should not march
with closed ranks.

I immediately rejected these unmilitary conditions and did not fail to
declare before the gentlemen who had arranged this 'day' how astonished
I was at the idea of their negotiating with such people and coming to an
agreement with them. Then I announced that the Storm Troops would
immediately march into the town in company formation, with our flags
flying and the band playing.

And that is what happened.

As we came out into the station yard we were met by a growling and
yelling mob of several thousand, that shouted at us: 'Assassins',
'Bandits', 'Robbers', 'Criminals'. These were the choice names which
these exemplary founders of the German Republic showered on us. The
young Storm Detachment gave a model example of order. The companies fell
into formation on the square in front of the station and at first took
no notice of the insults hurled at them by the mob. The police were
anxious. They did not pilot us to the quarters assigned to us on the
outskirts of Coburg, a city quite unknown to us, but to the Hofbra"uhaus
Keller in the centre of the town. Right and left of our march the tumult
raised by the accompanying mob steadily increased. Scarcely had the last
company entered the courtyard of the Hofbra"uhaus when the huge mass made
a rush to get in after them, shouting madly. In order to prevent this,
the police closed the gates. Seeing the position was untenable I called
the Storm Detachment to attention and then asked the police to open the
gates immediately. After a good deal of hesitation, they consented.

We now marched back along the same route as we had come, in the
direction of our quarters, and there we had to make a stand against the
crowd. As their cries and yells all along the route had failed to
disturb the equanimity of our companies, the champions of true
Socialism, Equality, and Fraternity now took to throwing stones. That
brought our patience to an end. For ten minutes long, blows fell right
and left, like a devastating shower of hail. Fifteen minutes later there
were no more Reds to be seen in the street.

The collisions which took place when the night came on were more
serious. Patrols of the Storm Detachment had discovered National
Socialists who had been attacked singly and were in an atrocious state.
Thereupon we made short work of the opponents. By the following morning
the Red terror, under which Coburg had been suffering for years, was
definitely smashed.

Adopting the typically Marxist and Jewish method of spreading
falsehoods, leaflets were distributed by hand on the streets, bearing
the caption: "Comrades and Comradesses of the International
Proletariat." These leaflets were meant to arouse the wrath of the
populace. Twisting the facts completely around, they declared that our
'bands of assasins' had commenced 'a war of extermination against the
peaceful workers of Coburg'. At half-past one that day there was to be a
'great popular demonstration', at which it was hoped that the workers of
the whole district would turn up. I was determined finally to crush this
Red terror and so I summoned the Storm Detachment to meet at midday.
Their number had now increased to 1,500. I decided to march with these
men to the Coburg Festival and to cross the big square where the Red
demonstration was to take place. I wanted to see if they would attempt
to assault us again. When we entered the square we found that instead of
the ten thousand that had been advertised, there were only a few hundred
people present. As we approached they remained silent for the most part,
and some ran away. Only at certain points along the route some bodies of
Reds, who had arrived from outside the city and had not yet come to know
us, attempted to start a row. But a few fisticuffs put them to flight.
And now one could see how the population, which had for such a long time
been so wretchedly intimidated, slowly woke up and recovered their
courage. They welcomed us openly, and in the evening, on our return
march, spontaneous shouts of jubilation broke out at several points
along the route.

At the station the railway employees informed us all of a sudden that
our train would not move. Thereupon I had some of the ringleaders told
that if this were the case I would have all the Red Party heroes
arrested that fell into our hands, that we would drive the train
ourselves, but that we would take away with us, in the locomotive and
tender and in some of the carriages, a few dozen members of this
brotherhood of international solidarity. I did not omit to let those
gentry know that if we had to conduct the train the journey would
undoubtedly be a very risky adventure and that we might all break our
necks. It would be a consolation, however, to know that we should not go
to Eternity alone, but in equality and fraternity with the Red gentry.

Thereupon the train departed punctually and we arrived next morning in
Munich safe and sound.

Thus at Coburg, for the first time since 1914, the equality of all
citizens before the law was re-established. For even if some coxcomb of
a higher official should assert to-day that the State protects the lives
of its citizens, at least in those days it was not so. For at that time
the citizens had to defend themselves against the representatives of the
present State.

At first it was not possible fully to estimate the importance of the
consequences which resulted from that day. The victorious Storm Troops
had their confidence in themselves considerably reinforced and also
their faith in the sagacity of their leaders. Our contemporaries began
to pay us special attention and for the first time many recognized the
National Socialist Movement as an organization that in all probability
was destined to bring the Marxist folly to a deserving end.

Only the democrats lamented the fact that we had not the complaisance to
allow our skulls to be cracked and that we had dared, in a democratic
Republic, to hit back with fists and sticks at a brutal assault, rather
than with pacifist chants.

Generally speaking, the bourgeois Press was partly distressed and partly
vulgar, as always. Only a few decent newspapers expressed their
satisfaction that at least in one locality the Marxist street bullies
had been effectively dealt with.

And in Coburg itself at least a part of the Marxist workers who must be
looked upon as misled, learned from the blows of National Socialist
fists that these workers were also fighting for ideals, because
experience teaches that the human being fights only for something in
which he believes and which he loves.

The Storm Detachment itself benefited most from the Coburg events. It
grew so quickly in numbers that at the Party Congress in January 1923
six thousand men participated in the ceremony of consecrating the flags
and the first companies were fully clad in their new uniform.

Our experience in Coburg proved how essential it is to introduce one
distinctive uniform for the Storm Detachment, not only for the purpose
of strengthening the ESPRIT DE CORPS but also to avoid confusion and the
danger of not recognizing the opponent in a squabble. Up to that time
they had merely worn the armlet, but now the tunic and the well-known
cap were added.

But the Coburg experience had also another important result. We now
determined to break the Red Terror in all those localities where for
many years it had prevented men of other views from holding their
meetings. We were determined to restore the right of free assembly. From
that time onwards we brought our battalions together in such places and
little by little the red citadels of Bavaria, one after another, fell
before the National Socialist propaganda. The Storm Troops became more
and more adept at their job. They increasingly lost all semblance of an
aimless and lifeless defence movement and came out into the light as an
active militant organization, fighting for the establishment of a new
German State.

This logical development continued until March 1923. Then an event
occurred which made me divert the Movement from the course hitherto
followed and introduce some changes in its outer formation.

In the first months of 1923 the French occupied the Ruhr district. The
consequence of this was of great importance in the development of the
Storm Detachment.

It is not yet possible, nor would it be in the interest of the nation,
to write or speak openly and freely on the subject. I shall speak of it
only as far as the matter has been dealt with in public discussions and
thus brought to the knowledge of everybody.

The occupation of the Ruhr district, which did not come as a surprise to
us, gave grounds for hoping that Germany would at last abandon its
cowardly policy of submission and therewith give the defensive
associations a definite task to fulfil. The Storm Detachment also, which
now numbered several thousand of robust and vigorous young men, should
not be excluded from this national service. During the spring and summer
of 1923 it was transformed into a fighting military organization. It is
to this reorganization that we must in great part attribute the later
developments that took place during 1923, in so far as it affected our
Movement.

Elsewhere I shall deal in broad outline with the development of events
in 1923. Here I wish only to state that the transformation of the Storm
Detachment at that time must have been detrimental to the interests of
the Movement if the conditions that had motivated the change were not to
be carried into effect, namely, the adoption of a policy of active
resistance against France.

The events which took place at the close of 1923, terrible as they may
appear at first sight, were almost a necessity if looked at from a
higher standpoint; because, in view of the attitude taken by the
Government of the German REICH, conversion of the Storm Troops into a
military force would be meaningless and thus a transformation which
would also be harmful to the Movement was ended at one stroke. At the
same time it was made possible for us to reconstruct at the point where
we had been diverted from the proper course.

In the year 1925 the German National Socialist Labour Party was
re-founded and had to organize and train its Storm Detachment once again
according to the principles I have laid down. It must return to the
original idea and once more it must consider its most essential task to
function as the instrument of defence and reinforcement in the spiritual
struggle to establish the ideals of the Movement.

The Storm Detachment must not be allowed to sink to the level of
something in the nature of a defence organization or a secret society.
Steps must be taken rather to make it a vanguard of 100,000 men in the
struggle for the National Socialist ideal which is based on the profound
principle of a People's State.




CHAPTER X



THE MASK OF FEDERALISM


In the winter of 1919, and still more in the spring and summer of 1920,
the young Party felt bound to take up a definite stand on a question
which already had become quite serious during the War. In the first
volume of this book I have briefly recorded certain facts which I had
personally witnessed and which foreboded the break-up of Germany. In
describing these facts I made reference to the special nature of the
propaganda which was directed by the English as well as the French
towards reopening the breach that had existed between North and South in
Germany. In the spring of 1915 there appeared the first of a series of
leaflets which was systematically followed up and the aim of which was
to arouse feeling against Prussia as being solely responsible for the
war. Up to 1916 this system had been developed and perfected in a
cunning and shameless manner. Appealing to the basest of human
instincts, this propaganda endeavoured to arouse the wrath of the South
Germans against the North Germans and after a short time it bore fruit.
Persons who were then in high positions under the Government and in the
Army, especially those attached to headquarters in the Bavarian Army,
merited the just reproof of having blindly neglected their duty and
failed to take the necessary steps to counter such propaganda. But
nothing was done. On the contrary, in some quarters it did not appear to
be quite unwelcome and probably they were short-sighted enough to think
that such propaganda might help along the development of unification in
Germany but even that it might automatically bring about consolidation
of the federative forces. Scarcely ever in history was such a wicked
neglect more wickedly avenged. The weakening of Prussia, which they
believed would result from this propaganda, affected the whole of
Germany. It resulted in hastening the collapse which not only wrecked
Germany as a whole but even more particularly the federal states.

In that town where the artificially created hatred against Prussia raged
most violently the revolt against the reigning House was the beginning
of the Revolution.

It would be a mistake to think that the enemy propaganda was exclusively
responsible for creating an anti-Prussian feeling and that there were no
reasons which might excuse the people for having listened to this
propaganda. The incredible fashion in which the national economic
interests were organized during the War, the absolutely crazy system of
centralization which made the whole REICH its ward and exploited the
REICH, furnished the principal grounds for the growth of that
anti-Prussian feeling. The average citizen looked upon the companies for
the placing of war contracts, all of which had their headquarters in
Berlin, as identical with Berlin and Berlin itself as identical with
Prussia. The average citizen did not know that the organization of these
robber companies, which were called War Companies, was not in the hands
of Berlin or Prussia and not even in German hands at all. People
recognized only the gross irregularities and the continual encroachments
of that hated institution in the Metropolis of the REICH and directed
their anger towards Berlin and Prussia, all the more because in certain
quarters (the Bavarian Government) nothing was done to correct this
attitude, but it was even welcomed with silent rubbing of hands.

The Jew was far too shrewd not to understand that the infamous campaign
which he had organized, under the cloak of War Companies, for plundering
the German nation would and must eventually arouse opposition. As long
as that opposition did not spring directly at his own throat he had no
reason to be afraid. Hence he decided that the best way of forestalling
an outbreak on the part of the enraged and desperate masses would be to
inflame their wrath and at the same time give it another outlet.

Let Bavaria quarrel as much as it liked with Prussia and Prussia with
Bavaria. The more, the merrier. This bitter strife between the two
states assured peace to the Jew. Thus public attention was completely
diverted from the international maggot in the body of the nation;
indeed, he seemed to have been forgotten. Then when there came a danger
that level-headed people, of whom there are many to be found also in
Bavaria, would advise a little more reserve and a more judicious
evaluation of things, thus calming the rage against Prussia, all the Jew
had to do in Berlin was to stage a new provocation and await results.
Every time that was done all those who had profiteered out of the
conflict between North and South filled their lungs and again fanned the
flame of indignation until it became a blaze.

It was a shrewd and expert manoeuvre on the part of the Jew, to set the
different branches of the German people quarrelling with one another, so
that their attention would be turned away from himself and he could
plunder them all the more completely.

Then came the Revolution.

Until the year 1918, or rather until the November of that year, the
average German citizen, particularly the less educated lower
middle-class and the workers, did not rightly understand what was
happening and did not realize what must be the inevitable consequences,
especially for Bavaria, of this internecine strife between the branches
of the German people; but at least those sections which called
themselves 'National' ought to have clearly perceived these consequences
on the day that the Revolution broke out. For the moment the COUP D'E'TAT
had succeeded, the leader and organizer of the Revolution in Bavaria put
himself forward as the defender of 'Bavarian' interests. The
international Jew, Kurt Eisner, began to play off Bavaria against
Prussia. This Oriental was just about the last person in the world that
could be pointed to as the logical defender of Bavarian interests. In
his trade as newspaper reporter he had wandered from place to place all
over Germany and to him it was a matter of sheer indifference whether
Bavaria or any other particular part of God's whole world continued to
exist.

In deliberately giving the revolutionary rising in Bavaria the character
of an offensive against Prussia, Kurt Eisner was not acting in the
slightest degree from the standpoint of Bavarian interests, but merely
as the commissioned representative of Jewry. He exploited existing
instincts and antipathies in Bavaria as a means which would help to make
the dismemberment of Germany all the more easy. When once dismembered,
the REICH would fall an easy prey to Bolshevism.

The tactics employed by him were continued for a time after his death.
The Marxists, who had always derided and exploited the individual German
states and their princes, now suddenly appealed, as an 'Independent
Party' to those sentiments and instincts which had their strongest roots
in the families of the reigning princes and the individual states.

The fight waged by the Bavarian Soviet Republic against the military
contingents that were sent to free Bavaria from its grasp was
represented by the Marxist propagandists as first of all the 'Struggle
of the Bavarian Worker' against 'Prussian Militarism.' This explains why
it was that the suppression of the Soviet Republic in Munich did not
have the same effect there as in the other German districts. Instead of
recalling the masses to a sense of reason, it led to increased
bitterness and anger against Prussia.

The art of the Bolshevik agitators, in representing the suppression of
the Bavarian Soviet Republic as a victory of 'Prussian Militarism' over
the 'Anti-militarists' and 'Anti-Prussian' people of Bavaria, bore rich
fruit. Whereas on the occasion of the elections to the Bavarian
Legislative Diet, Kurt Eisner did not have ten thousand followers in
Munich and the Communist party less than three thousand, after the fall
of the Bavarian Republic the votes given to the two parties together
amounted to nearly one hundred thousand.

It was then that I personally began to combat that crazy incitement of
some branches of the German people against other branches.

I believe that never in my life did I undertake a more unpopular task
than I did when I took my stand against the anti-Prussian incitement.
During the Soviet regime in Munich great public meetings were held at
which hatred against the rest of Germany, but particularly against
Prussia, was roused up to such a pitch that a North German would have
risked his life in attending one of those meetings. These meetings often
ended in wild shouts: "Away from Prussia", "Down with the Prussians",
"War against Prussia", and so on. This feeling was openly expressed in
the Reichstag by a particularly brilliant defender of Bavarian sovereign
rights when he said: "Rather die as a Bavarian than rot as a Prussian".

One should have attended some of the meetings held at that time in order
to understand what it meant for one when, for the first time and
surrounded by only a handful of friends, I raised my voice against this
folly at a meeting held in the Munich Lo"wenbra"u Keller. Some of my War
comrades stood by me then. And it is easy to imagine how we felt when
that raging crowd, which had lost all control of its reason, roared at
us and threatened to kill us. During the time that we were fighting for
the country the same crowd were for the most part safely ensconced in
the rear positions or were peacefully circulating at home as deserters
and shirkers. It is true that that scene turned out to be of advantage
to me. My small band of comrades felt for the first time absolutely
united with me and readily swore to stick by me through life and death.

These conflicts, which were constantly repeated in 1919, seemed to
become more violent soon after the beginning of 1920. There were
meetings--I remember especially one in the Wagner Hall in the
Sonnenstrasse in Munich--during the course of which my group, now grown
much larger, had to defend themselves against assaults of the most
violent character. It happened more than once that dozens of my
followers were mishandled, thrown to the floor and stamped upon by the
attackers and were finally thrown out of the hall more dead than alive.

The struggle which I had undertaken, first by myself alone and
afterwards with the support of my war comrades, was now continued by the
young movement, I might say almost as a sacred mission.

I am proud of being able to say to-day that we--depending almost
exclusively on our followers in Bavaria--were responsible for putting an
end, slowly but surely, to the coalition of folly and treason. I say
folly and treason because, although convinced that the masses who joined
in it meant well but were stupid, I cannot attribute such simplicity as
an extenuating circumstance in the case of the organizers and their
abetters. I then looked upon them, and still look upon them to-day, as
traitors in the payment of France. In one case, that of Dorten, history
has already pronounced its judgment.

The situation became specially dangerous at that time by reason of the
fact that they were very astute in their ability to cloak their real
tendencies, by insisting primarily on their federative intentions and
claiming that those were the sole motives of the agitation. Of course it
is quite obvious that the agitation against Prussia had nothing to do
with federalism. Surely 'Federal Activities' is not the phrase with
which to describe an effort to dissolve and dismember another federal
state. For an honest federalist, for whom the formula used by Bismarck
to define his idea of the REICH is not a counterfeit phrase, could not
in the same breath express the desire to cut off portions of the
Prussian State, which was created or at least completed by Bismarck. Nor
could he publicly support such a separatist attempt.

What an outcry would be raised in Munich if some prussian conservative
party declared itself in favour of detaching Franconia from Bavaria or
took public action in demanding and promoting such a separatist policy.
Nevertheless, one can only have sympathy for all those real and honest
federalists who did not see through this infamous swindle, for they were
its principal victims. By distorting the federalist idea in such a way
its own champions prepared its grave. One cannot make propaganda for a
federalist configuration of the REICH by debasing and abusing and
besmirching the essential element of such a political structure, namely
Prussia, and thus making such a Confederation impossible, if it ever had
been possible. It is all the more incredible by reason of the fact that
the fight carried on by those so-called federalists was directed against
that section of the Prussian people which was the last that could be
looked upon as connected with the November democracy. For the abuse and
attacks of these so-called federalists were not levelled against the
fathers of the Weimar Constitution--the majority of whom were South
Germans or Jews--but against those who represented the old conservative
Prussia, which was the antipodes of the Weimar Constitution. The fact
that the directors of this campaign were careful not to touch the Jews
is not to be wondered at and perhaps gives the key to the whole riddle.

Before the Revolution the Jew was successful in distracting attention
from himself and his War Companies by inciting the masses, and
especially the Bavarians, against Prussia. Similarly he felt obliged,
after the Revolution, to find some way of camouflaging his new plunder
campaign which was nine or ten times greater. And again he succeeded, in
this case by provoking the so-called 'national' elements against one
another: the conservative Bavarians against the Prussians, who were just
as conservative. He acted again with extreme cunning, inasmuch as he who
held the reins of Prussia's destiny in his hands provoked such crude and
tactless aggressions that again and again they set the blood boiling in
those who were being continually duped. Never against the Jew, however,
but always the German against his own brother. The Bavarian did not see
the Berlin of four million industrious and efficient working people, but
only the lazy and decadent Berlin which is to be found in the worst
quarters of the West End. And his antipathy was not directed against
this West End of Berlin but against the 'Prussian' city.

In many cases it tempted one to despair.

The ability which the Jew has displayed in turning public attention away
from himself and giving it another direction may be studied also in what
is happening to-day.

In 1918 there was nothing like an organized anti-Semitic feeling. I
still remember the difficulties we encountered the moment we mentioned
the Jew. We were either confronted with dumb-struck faces or else a
lively and hefty antagonism. The efforts we made at the time to point
out the real enemy to the public seemed to be doomed to failure. But
then things began to change for the better, though only very slowly. The
'League for Defence and Offence' was defectively organized but at least
it had the great merit of opening up the Jewish question once again. In
the winter of 1918-1919 a kind of anti-semitism began slowly to take
root. Later on the National Socialist Movement presented the Jewish
problem in a new light. Taking the question beyond the restricted
circles of the upper classes and small bourgeoisie we succeeded in
transforming it into the driving motive of a great popular movement. But
the moment we were successful in placing this problem before the German
people in the light of an idea that would unite them in one struggle the
Jew reacted. He resorted to his old tactics. With amazing alacrity he
hurled the torch of discord into the patriotic movement and opened a
rift there. In bringing forward the ultramontane question and in the
mutual quarrels that it gave rise to between Catholicism and
Protestantism lay the sole possibility, as conditions then were, of
occupying public attention with other problems and thus ward off the
attack which had been concentrated against Jewry. The men who dragged
our people into this controversy can never make amends for the crime
they then committed against the nation. Anyhow, the Jew has attained the
ends he desired. Catholics and Protestants are fighting with one another
to their hearts' content, while the enemy of Aryan humanity and all
Christendom is laughing up his sleeve.

Once it was possible to occupy the attention of the public for several
years with the struggle between federalism and unification, wearing out
their energies in this mutual friction while the Jew trafficked in the
freedom of the nation and sold our country to the masters of
international high finance. So in our day he has succeeded again, this
time by raising ructions between the two German religious denominations
while the foundations on which both rest are being eaten away and
destroyed through the poison injected by the international and
cosmopolitan Jew.

Look at the ravages from which our people are suffering daily as a
result of being contaminated with Jewish blood. Bear in mind the fact
that this poisonous contamination can be eliminated from the national
body only after centuries, or perhaps never. Think further of how the
process of racial decomposition is debasing and in some cases even
destroying the fundamental Aryan qualities of our German people, so that
our cultural creativeness as a nation is gradually becoming impotent and
we are running the danger, at least in our great cities, of falling to
the level where Southern Italy is to-day. This pestilential adulteration
of the blood, of which hundreds of thousands of our people take no
account, is being systematically practised by the Jew to-day.
Systematically these negroid parasites in our national body corrupt our
innocent fair-haired girls and thus destroy something which can no
longer be replaced in this world.

The two Christian denominations look on with indifference at the
profanation and destruction of a noble and unique creature who was given
to the world as a gift of God's grace. For the future of the world,
however, it does not matter which of the two triumphs over the other,
the Catholic or the Protestant. But it does matter whether Aryan
humanity survives or perishes. And yet the two Christian denominations
are not contending against the destroyer of Aryan humanity but are
trying to destroy one another. Everybody who has the right kind of
feeling for his country is solemnly bound, each within his own
denomination, to see to it that he is not constantly talking about the
Will of God merely from the lips but that in actual fact he fulfils the
Will of God and does not allow God's handiwork to be debased. For it was
by the Will of God that men were made of a certain bodily shape, were
given their natures and their faculties. Whoever destroys His work wages
war against God's Creation and God's Will. Therefore everyone should
endeavour, each in his own denomination of course, and should consider
it as his first and most solemn duty to hinder any and everyone whose
conduct tends, either by word or deed, to go outside his own religious
body and pick a quarrel with those of another denomination. For, in view
of the religious schism that exists in Germany, to attack the essential
characteristics of one denomination must necessarily lead to a war of
extermination between the two Christian denominations. Here there can be
no comparison between our position and that of France, or Spain or
Italy. In those three countries one may, for instance, make propaganda
for the side that is fighting against ultramontanism without thereby
incurring the danger of a national rift among the French, or Spanish or
Italian people. In Germany, however, that cannot be so, for here the
Protestants would also take part in such propaganda. And thus the
defence which elsewhere only Catholics organize against clerical
aggression in political matters would assume with us the character of a
Protestant attack against Catholicism. What may be tolerated by the
faithful in one denomination even when it seems unjust to them, will at
once be indignantly rejected and opposed on A PRIORI grounds if it
should come from the militant leaders of another denomination. This is
so true that even men who would be ready and willing to fight for the
removal of manifest grievances within their own religious denomination
will drop their own fight and turn their activities against the outsider
the moment the abolition of such grievances is counselled or demanded by
one who is not of the same faith. They consider it unjustified and
inadmissible and incorrect for outsiders to meddle in matters which do
not affect them at all. Such attempts are not excused even when they are
inspired by a feeling for the supreme interests of the national
community; because even in our day religious feelings still have deeper
roots than all feeling for political and national expediency. That
cannot be changed by setting one denomination against another in bitter
conflict. It can be changed only if, through a spirit of mutual
tolerance, the nation can be assured of a future the greatness of which
will gradually operate as a conciliating factor in the sphere of
religion also. I have no hesitation in saying that in those men who seek
to-day to embroil the patriotic movement in religious quarrels I see
worse enemies of my country than the international communists are. For
the National Socialist Movement has set itself to the task of converting
those communists. But anyone who goes outside the ranks of his own
Movement and tends to turn it away from the fulfilment of its mission is
acting in a manner that deserves the severest condemnation. He is acting
as a champion of Jewish interests, whether consciously or unconsciously
does not matter. For it is in the interests of the Jews to-day that the
energies of the patriotic movement should be squandered in a religious
conflict, because it is beginning to be dangerous for the Jews. I have
purposely used the phrase about SQUANDERING the energies of the
Movement, because nobody but some person who is entirely ignorant of
history could imagine that this movement can solve a question which the
greatest statesmen have tried for centuries to solve, and tried in vain.

Anyhow the facts speak for themselves. The men who suddenly discovered,
in 1924, that the highest mission of the patriotic movement was to fight
ultramontanism, have not succeeded in smashing ultramontanism, but they
succeeded in splitting the patriotic movement. I have to guard against
the possibility of some immature brain arising in the patriotic movement
which thinks that it can do what even a Bismarck failed to do. It will
be always one of the first duties of those who are directing the
National Socialist Movement to oppose unconditionally any attempt to
place the National Socialist Movement at the service of such a conflict.
And anybody who conducts a propaganda with that end in view must be
expelled forthwith from its ranks.

As a matter of fact we succeeded until the autumn of 1923 in keeping our
movement away from such controversies. The most devoted Protestant could
stand side by side with the most devoted Catholic in our ranks without
having his conscience disturbed in the slightest as far as concerned his
religious convictions. The bitter struggle which both waged in common
against the wrecker of Aryan humanity taught them natural respect and
esteem. And it was just in those years that our movement had to engage
in a bitter strife with the Centre Party not for religious ends but for
national, racial, political and economic ends. The success we then
achieved showed that we were right, but it does not speak to-day in
favour of those who thought they knew better.

In recent years things have gone so far that patriotic circles, in
god-forsaken blindness of their religious strife, could not recognize
the folly of their conduct even from the fact that atheist Marxist
newspapers advocated the cause of one religious denomination or the
other, according as it suited Marxist interests, so as to create
confusion through slogans and declarations which were often immeasurably
stupid, now molesting the one party and again the other, and thus poking
the fire to keep the blaze at its highest.

But in the case of a people like the Germans, whose history has so often
shown them capable of fighting for phantoms to the point of complete
exhaustion, every war-cry is a mortal danger. By these slogans our
people have often been drawn away from the real problems of their
existence. While we were exhausting our energies in religious wars the
others were acquiring their share of the world. And while the patriotic
movement is debating with itself whether the ultramontane danger be
greater than the Jewish, or vice versa, the Jew is destroying the racial
basis of our existence and thereby annihilating our people. As far as
regards that kind of 'patriotic' warrior, on behalf of the National
Socialist Movement and therefore of the German people I pray with all my
heart: "Lord, preserve us from such friends, and then we can easily deal
with our enemies."

The controversy over federation and unification, so cunningly
propagandized by the Jews in 1919-1920 and onwards, forced National
Socialism, which repudiated the quarrel, to take up a definite stand in
relation to the essential problem concerned in it. Ought Germany to be a
confederacy or a military State? What is the practical significance of
these terms? To me it seems that the second question is more important
than the first, because it is fundamental to the understanding of the
whole problem and also because the answer to it may help to clear up
confusion and therewith have a conciliating effect.

What is a Confederacy? (Note 22)

[Note 22. Before 1918 Germany was a federal Empire, composed of
twenty-five federal states.]

By a Confederacy we mean a union of sovereign states which of their own
free will and in virtue of their sovereignty come together and create a
collective unit, ceding to that unit as much of their own sovereign
rights as will render the existence of the union possible and will
guarantee it.

But the theoretical formula is not wholly put into practice by any
confederacy that exists to-day. And least of all by the American Union,
where it is impossible to speak of original sovereignty in regard to the
majority of the states. Many of them were not included in the federal
complex until long after it had been established. The states that make
up the American Union are mostly in the nature of territories, more or
less, formed for technical administrative purposes, their boundaries
having in many cases been fixed in the mapping office. Originally these
states did not and could not possess sovereign rights of their own.
Because it was the Union that created most of the so-called states.
Therefore the sovereign rights, often very comprehensive, which were
left, or rather granted, to the various territories correspond not only
to the whole character of the Confederation but also to its vast space,
which is equivalent to the size of a Continent. Consequently, in
speaking of the United States of America one must not consider them as
sovereign states but as enjoying rights or, better perhaps, autarchic
powers, granted to them and guaranteed by the Constitution.

Nor does our definition adequately express the condition of affairs in
Germany. It is true that in Germany the individual states existed as
states before the REICH and that the REICH was formed from them. The
REICH, however, was not formed by the voluntary and equal co-operation
of the individual states, but rather because the state of Prussia
gradually acquired a position of hegemony over the others. The
difference in the territorial area alone between the German states
prevents any comparison with the American Union. The great difference in
territorial area between the very small German states that then existed
and the larger, or even still more the largest, demonstrates the
inequality of their achievements and shows that they could not take an
equal part in founding and shaping the federal Empire. In the case of
most of these individual states it cannot be maintained that they ever
enjoyed real sovereignty; and the term 'State Sovereignty' was really
nothing more than an administrative formula which had no inner meaning.
As a matter of fact, not only developments in the past but also in our
own time wiped out several of these so-called 'Sovereign States' and
thus proved in the most definite way how frail these 'sovereign' state
formations were.

I cannot deal here with the historical question of how these individual
states came to be established, but I must call attention to the fact
that hardly in any case did their frontiers coincide with ethical
frontiers of the inhabitants. They were purely political phenomena which
for the most part emerged during the sad epoch when the German Empire
was in a state of exhaustion and was dismembered. They represented both
cause and effect in the process of exhaustion and partition of our
fatherland.

The Constitution of the old REICH took all this into account, at least
up to a certain degree, in so far as the individual states were not
accorded equal representation in the Reichstag, but a representation
proportionate to their respective areas, their actual importance and the
role which they played in the formation of the REICH.

The sovereign rights which the individual states renounced in order to
form the REICH were voluntarily ceded only to a very small degree. For
the most part they had no practical existence or they were simply taken
by Prussia under the pressure of her preponderant power. The principle
followed by Bismarck was not to give the REICH what he could take from
the individual states but to demand from the individual states only what
was absolutely necessary for the REICH. A moderate and wise policy. On
the one side Bismarck showed the greatest regard for customs and
traditions; on the other side his policy secured for the new REICH from
its foundation onwards a great measure of love and willing co-operation.
But it would be a fundamental error to attribute Bismarck's decision to
any conviction on his part that the REICH was thus acquiring all the
rights of sovereignty which would suflice for all time. That was far
from Bismarck's idea. On the contrary, he wished to leave over for the
future what it would be difficult to carry through at the moment and
might not have been readily agreed to by the individual states. He
trusted to the levelling effect of time and to the pressure exercised by
the process of evolution, the steady action of which appeared more
effective than an attempt to break the resistance which the individual
states offered at the moment. By this policy he showed his great ability
in the art of statesmanship. And, as a matter of fact, the sovereignty
of the REICH has continually increased at the cost of the sovereignty of
the individual states. The passing of time has achieved what Bismarck
hoped it would.

The German collapse and the abolition of the monarchical form of
government necessarily hastened this development. The German federal
states, which had not been grounded on ethnical foundations but arose
rather out of political conditions, were bound to lose their importance
the moment the monarchical form of government and the dynasties
connected with it were abolished, for it was to the spirit inherent in
these that the individual states owned their political origin and
development. Thus deprived of their internal RAISON D'E^TRE, they
renounced all right to survival and were induced by purely practical
reasons to fuse with their neighbours or else they joined the more
powerful states out of their own free will. That proved in a striking
manner how extraordinarily frail was the actual sovereignty these small
phantom states enjoyed, and it proved too how lightly they were
estimated by their own citizens.

Though the abolition of the monarchical regime and its representatives
had dealt a hard blow to the federal character of the REICH, still more
destructive, from the federal point of view, was the acceptance of the
obligations that resulted from the 'peace' treaty.

It was only natural and logical that the federal states should lose all
sovereign control over the finances the moment the REICH, in consequence
of a lost war, was subjected to financial obligations which could never
be guaranteed through separate treaties with the individual states. The
subsequent steps which led the REICH to take over the posts and railways
were an enforced advance in the process of enslaving our people, a
process which the peace treaties gradually developed. The REICH was
forced to secure possession of resources which had to be constantly
increased in order to satisfy the demands made by further extortions.

The form in which the powers of the REICH were thus extended to embrace
the federal states was often ridiculously stupid, but in itself the
procedure was logical and natural. The blame for it must be laid at the
door of these men and those parties that failed in the hour of need to
concentrate all their energies in an effort to bring the war to a
victorious issue. The guilt lies on those parties which, especially in
Bavaria, catered for their own egotistic interests during the war and
refused to the REICH what the REICH had to requisition to a tenfold
greater measure when the war was lost. The retribution of History!
Rarely has the vengeance of Heaven followed so closely on the crime as
it did in this case. Those same parties which, a few years previously,
placed the interests of their own states--especially in Bavaria--before
those of the REICH had now to look on passively while the pressure of
events forced the REICH, in its own interests, to abolish the existence
of the individual states. They were the victims of their own defaults.

It was an unparalleled example of hypocrisy to raise the cry of
lamentation over the loss which the federal states suffered in being
deprived of their sovereign rights. This cry was raised before the
electorate, for it is only to the electorate that our contemporary
parties address themselves. But these parties, without exception, outbid
one another in accepting a policy of fulfilment which, by the sheer
force of circumstances and in its ultimate consequences, could not but
lead to a profound alteration in the internal structure of the REICH.
Bismarck's REICH was free and unhampered by any obligations towards the
outside world.

Bismarck's REICH never had to shoulder such heavy and entirely
unproductive obligations as those to which Germany was subjected under
the Dawes Plan. Also in domestic affairs Bismarck's REICH was able to
limit its powers to a few matters that were absolutely necessary for its
existence. Therefore it could dispense with the necessity of a financial
control over these states and could live from their contributions. On
the other side the relatively small financial tribute which the federal
states had to pay to the REICH induced them to welcome its existence.
But it is untrue and unjust to state now, as certain propagandists do,
that the federal states are displeased with the REICH merely because of
their financial subjection to it. No, that is not how the matter really
stands. The lack of sympathy for the political idea embodied in the
REICH is not due to the loss of sovereign rights on the part of the
individual states. It is much more the result of the deplorable fashion
in which the present re'gime cares for the interests of the German
people. Despite all the celebrations in honour of the national flag and
the Constitution, every section of the German people feels that the
present REICH is not in accordance with its heart's desire. And the Law
for the Protection of the Republic may prevent outrages against
republican institutions, but it will not gain the love of one single
German. In its constant anxiety to protect itself against its own
citizens by means of laws and sentences of imprisonment, the Republic
has aroused sharp and humiliating criticism of all republican
institutions as such.

For another reason also it is untrue to say, as certain parties affirm
to-day, that the REICH has ceased to be popular on account of its
overbearing conduct in regard to certain sovereign rights which the
individual states had heretofore enjoyed. Supposing the REICH had not
extended its authority over the individual states, there is no reason to
believe that it would find more favour among those states if the general
obligations remained so heavy as they now are. On the contrary, if the
individual states had to pay their respective shares of the highly
increased tribute which the REICH has to meet to-day in order to fulfil
the provisions of the Versailles Dictate, the hostility towards the
REICH would be infinitely greater. For then not only would it prove
difficult to collect the respective contributions due to the REICH from
the federal states, but coercive methods would have to be employed in
making the collections. The Republic stands on the footing of the peace
treaties and has neither the courage nor the intention to break them.
That being so, it must observe the obligations which the peace treaties
have imposed on it. The responsibility for this situation is to be
attributed solely to those parties who preach unceasingly to the patient
electoral masses on the necessity of maintaining the autonomy of the
federal states, while at the same time they champion and demand of the
REICH a policy which must necessarily lead to the suppression of even
the very last of those so-called 'sovereign' rights.

I say NECESSARILY because the present REICH has no other possible means
of bearing the burden of charges which an insane domestic and foreign
policy has laid on it. Here still another wedge is placed on the former,
to drive it in still deeper. Every new debt which the REICH contracts,
through the criminal way in which the interests of Germany are
represented VIS-A`-VIS foreign countries, necessitates a new and stronger
blow which drives the under wedges still deeper, That blow demands
another step in the progressive abolition of the sovereign rights of the
individual states, so as not to allow the germs of opposition to rise up
into activity or even to exist.

The chief characteristic difference between the policy of the present
REICH and that of former times lies in this: The old REICH gave freedom
to its people at home and showed itself strong towards the outside
world, whereas the Republic shows itself weak towards the stranger and
oppresses its own citizens at home. In both cases one attitude
determines the other. A vigorous national State does not need to make
many laws for the interior, because of the affection and attachment of
its citizens. The international servile State can live only by coercing
its citizens to render it the services it demands. And it is a piece of
impudent falsehood for the present regime to speak of 'Free citizens'.
Only the old Germany could speak in that manner. The present Republic is
a colony of slaves at the service of the stranger. At best it has
subjects, but not citizens. Hence it does not possess a national flag
but only a trade mark, introduced and protected by official decree and
legislative measures. This symbol, which is the Gessler's cap of German
Democracy, will always remain alien to the spirit of our people. On its
side, the Republic having no sense of tradition or respect for past
greatness, dragged the symbol of the past in the mud, but it will be
surprised one day to discover how superficial is the devotion of its
citizens to its own symbol. The Republic has given to itself the
character of an intermezzo in German history. And so this State is bound
constantly to restrict more and more the sovereign rights of the
individual states, not only for general reasons of a financial character
but also on principle. For by enforcing a policy of financial blackmail,
to squeeze the last ounce of substance out of its people, it is forced
also to take their last rights away from them, lest the general
discontent may one day flame up into open rebellion.

We, National Socialists, would reverse this formula and would adopt the
following axiom: A strong national REICH which recognizes and protects
to the largest possible measure the rights of its citizens both within
and outside its frontiers can allow freedom to reign at home without
trembling for the safety of the State. On the other hand, a strong
national Government can intervene to a considerable degree in the
liberties of the individual subject as well as in the liberties of the
constituent states without thereby weakening the ideal of the REICH; and
it can do this while recognizing its responsibility for the ideal of the
REICH, because in these particular acts and measures the individual
citizen recognizes a means of promoting the prestige of the nation as a
whole.

Of course, every State in the world has to face the question of
unification in its internal organization. And Germany is no exception in
this matter. Nowadays it is absurd to speak of 'statal sovereignty' for
the constituent states of the REICH, because that has already become
impossible on account of the ridiculously small size of so many of these
states. In the sphere of commerce as well as that of administration the
importance of the individual states has been steadily decreasing. Modern
means of communication and mechanical progress have been increasingly
restricting distance and space. What was once a State is to-day only a
province and the territory covered by a modern State had once the
importance of a continent. The purely technical difficulty of
administering a State like Germany is not greater than that of governing
a province like Brandenburg a hundred years ago. And to-day it is easier
to cover the distance from Munich to Berlin than it was to cover the
distance from Munich to Starnberg a hundred years ago. In view of the
modern means of transport, the whole territory of the REICH to-day is
smaller than that of certain German federal states at the time of the
Napoleonic wars. To close one's eyes to the consequences of these facts
means to live in the past. There always were, there are and always will
be, men who do this. They may retard but they cannot stop the
revolutions of history.

We, National Socialists, must not allow the consequences of that truth
to pass by us unnoticed. In these matters also we must not permit
ourselves to be misled by the phrases of our so-called national
bourgeois parties. I say 'phrases', because these same parodies do not
seriously believe that it is possible for them to carry out their
proposals, and because they themselves are the chief culprits and also
the accomplices responsible for the present state of affairs. Especially
in Bavaria, the demands for a halt in the process of centralization can
be no more than a party move behind which there is no serious idea. If
these parties ever had to pass from the realm of phrase-making into that
of practical deeds they would present a sorry spectacle. Every so-called
'Robbery of Sovereign Rights' from Bavaria by the REICH has met with no
practical resistance, except for some fatuous barking by way of protest.
Indeed, when anyone seriously opposed the madness that was shown in
carrying out this system of centralization he was told by those same
parties that he understood nothing of the nature and needs of the State
to-day. They slandered him and pronounced him anathema and persecuted
him until he was either shut up in prison or illegally deprived of the
right of public speech. In the light of these facts our followers should
become all the more convinced of the profound hypocrisy which
characterizes these so-called federalist circles. To a certain extent
they use the federalist doctrine just as they use the name of religion,
merely as a means of promoting their own base party interests.

A certain unification, especially in the field of transport, appears
logical. But we, National Socialists, feel it our duty to oppose with
all our might such a development in the modern State, especially when
the measures proposed are solely for the purpose of screening a
disastrous foreign policy and making it possible. And just because the
present REICH has threatened to take over the railways, the posts, the
finances, etc., not from the high standpoint of a national policy, but
in order to have in its hands the means and pledges for an unlimited
policy of fulfilment--for that reason we, National Socialists, must take
every step that seems suitable to obstruct and, if possible, definitely
to prevent such a policy. We must fight against the present system of
amalgamating institutions that are vitally important for the existence
of our people, because this system is being adopted solely to facilitate
the payment of milliards and the transference of pledges to the
stranger, under the post-War provisions which our politicians have
accepted.

For these reasons also the National Socialist Movement has to take up a
stand against such tendencies.

Moreover, we must oppose such centralization because in domestic affairs
it helps to reinforce a system of government which in all its
manifestations has brought the greatest misfortunes on the German
nation. The present Jewish-Democratic REICH, which has become a
veritable curse for the German people, is seeking to negative the force
of the criticism offered by all the federal states which have not yet
become imbued with the spirit of the age, and is trying to carry out
this policy by crushing them to the point of annihilation. In face of
this we National Socialists must try to ground the opposition of the
individual states on such a basis that it will be able to operate with a
good promise of success. We must do this by transforming the struggle
against centralization into something that will be an expression of the
higher interests of the German nation as such. Therefore, while the
Bavarian Populist Party, acting from its own narrow and particularist
standpoint, fights to maintain the 'special rights' of the Bavarian
State, we ought to stand on quite a different ground in fighting for the
same rights. Our grounds ought to be those of the higher national
interests in opposition to the November Democracy.

A still further reason for opposing a centralizing process of that kind
arises from the certain conviction that in great part this so-called
nationalization does not make for unification at all and still less for
simplification. In many cases it is adopted simply as a means of
removing from the sovereign control of the individual states certain
institutions which they wish to place in the hands of the revolutionary
parties. In German History favouritism has never been of so base a
character as in the democratic republic. A great portion of this
centralization to-day is the work of parties which once promised that
they would open the way for the promotion of talent, meaning thereby
that they would fill those posts and offices entirely with their own
partisans. Since the foundation of the Republic the Jews especially have
been obtaining positions in the economic institutions taken over by the
REICH and also positions in the national administration, so that the one
and the other have become preserves of Jewry.

For tactical reasons, this last consideration obliges us to watch with
the greatest attention every further attempt at centralization and fight
it at each step. But in doing this our standpoint must always be that of
a lofty national policy and never a pettifogging particularism.

This last observation is necessary, lest an opinion might arise among
our own followers that we do not accredit to the REICH the right of
incorporating in itself a sovereignty which is superior to that of the
constituent states. As regards this right we cannot and must not
entertain the slightest doubt. Because for us the State is nothing but a
form. Its substance, or content, is the essential thing. And that is the
nation, the people. It is clear therefore that every other interest must
be subordinated to the supreme interests of the nation. In particular we
cannot accredit to any other state a sovereign power and sovereign
rights within the confines of the nation and the REICH, which represents
the nation. The absurdity which some federal states commit by
maintaining 'representations' abroad and corresponding foreign
'representations' among themselves--that must cease and will cease.
Until this happens we cannot be surprised if certain foreign countries
are dubious about the political unity of the REICH and act accordingly.
The absurdity of these 'representations' is all the greater because they
do harm and do not bring the slightest advantage. If the interests of a
German abroad cannot be protected by the ambassador of the REICH, much
less can they be protected by the minister from some small federal state
which appears ridiculous in the framework of the present world order.
The real truth is that these small federal states are envisaged as
points of attack for attempts at secession, which prospect is always
pleasing to a certain foreign State. We, National Socialists, must not
allow some noble caste which has become effete with age to occupy an
ambassadorial post abroad, with the idea that by engrafting one of its
withered branches in new soil the green leaves may sprout again. Already
in the time of the old REICH our diplomatic representatives abroad were
such a sorry lot that a further trial of that experience would be out of
the question.

It is certain that in the future the importance of the individual states
will be transferred to the sphere of our cultural policy. The monarch
who did most to make Bavaria an important centre was not an obstinate
particularist with anti-German tendencies, but Ludwig I who was as much
devoted to the ideal of German greatness as he was to that of art. His
first consideration was to use the powers of the state to develop the
cultural position of Bavaria and not its political power. And in doing
this he produced better and more durable results than if he had followed
any other line of conduct. Up to this time Munich was a provincial
residence town of only small importance, but he transformed it into the
metropolis of German art and by doing so he made it an intellectual
centre which even to-day holds Franconia to Bavaria, though the
Franconians are of quite a different temperament. If Munich had remained
as it had been earlier, what has happened in Saxony would have been
repeated in Bavaria, with the difference that Leipzig and Bavarian
Nu"rnberg would have become, not Bavarian but Franconian cities. It was
not the cry of "Down with Prussia" that made Munich great. What made
this a city of importance was the King who wished to present it to the
German nation as an artistic jewel that would have to be seen and
appreciated, and so it has turned out in fact. Therein lies a lesson for
the future. The importance of the individual states in the future will
no longer lie in their political or statal power. I look to them rather
as important ethnical and cultural centres. But even in this respect
time will do its levelling work. Modern travelling facilities shuffle
people among one another in such a way that tribal boundaries will fade
out and even the cultural picture will gradually become more of a
uniform pattern.

The army must definitely be kept clear of the influence of the
individual states. The coming National Socialist State must not fall
back into the error of the past by imposing on the army a task which is
not within its sphere and never should have been assigned to it. The
German army does not exist for the purpose of being a school in which
tribal particularisms are to be cultivated and preserved, but rather as
a school for teaching all the Germans to understand and adapt their
habits to one another. Whatever tends to have a separating influence in
the life of the nation ought to be made a unifying influence in the
army. The army must raise the German boy above the narrow horizon of his
own little native province and set him within the broad picture of the
nation. The youth must learn to know, not the confines of his own region
but those of the fatherland, because it is the latter that he will have
to defend one day. It is therefore absurd to have the German youth do
his military training in his own native region. During that period he
ought to learn to know Germany. This is all the more important to-day,
since young Germans no longer travel on their own account as they once
used to do and thus enlarge their horizon. In view of this, is it not
absurd to leave the young Bavarian recruit at Munich, the recruit from
Baden at Baden itself and the Wu"rttemberger at Stuttgart and so on? And
would it not be more reasonable to show the Rhine and the North Sea to
the Bavarian, the Alps to the native of Hamburg and the mountains of
Central Germany to the boy from East Prussia? The character proper to
each region ought to be maintained in the troops but not in the training
garrisons. We may disapprove of every attempt at unification but not
that of unifying the army. On the contrary, even though we should wish
to welcome no other kind of unification, this must be greeted with joy.
In view of the size of the present army of the REICH, it would be absurd
to maintain the federal divisions among the troops. Moreover, in the
unification of the German army which has actually been effected we see a
fact which we must not renounce but restore in the future national army.

Finally a new and triumphant idea should burst every chain which tends
to paralyse its efforts to push forward. National Socialism must claim
the right to impose its principles on the whole German nation, without
regard to what were hitherto the confines of federal states. And we must
educate the German nation in our ideas and principles. As the Churches
do not feel themselves bound or limited by political confines, so the
National Socialist Idea cannot feel itself limited to the territories of
the individual federal states that belong to our Fatherland.

The National Socialist doctrine is not handmaid to the political
interests of the single federal states. One day it must become teacher
to the whole German nation. It must determine the life of the whole
people and shape that life anew. For this reason we must imperatively
demand the right to overstep boundaries that have been traced by a
political development which we repudiate.

The more completely our ideas triumph, the more liberty can we concede
in particular affairs to our citizens at home.




CHAPTER XI



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION


The year 1921 was specially important for me from many points of view.

When I entered the German Labour Party I at once took charge of the
propaganda, believing this branch to be far the most important for the
time being. Just then it was not a matter of pressing necessity to
cudgel one's brains over problems of organization. The first necessity
was to spread our ideas among as many people as possible. Propaganda
should go well ahead of organization and gather together the human
material for the latter to work up. I have never been in favour of hasty
and pedantic methods of organization, because in most cases the result
is merely a piece of dead mechanism and only rarely a living
organization. Organization is a thing that derives its existence from
organic life, organic evolution. When the same set of ideas have found a
lodgement in the minds of a certain number of people they tend of
themselves to form a certain degree of order among those people and out
of this inner formation something that is very valuable arises. Of
course here, as everywhere else, one must take account of those human
weaknesses which make men hesitate, especially at the beginning, to
submit to the control of a superior mind. If an organization is imposed
from above downwards in a mechanical fashion, there is always the danger
that some individual may push himself forward who is not known for what
he is and who, out of jealousy, will try to hinder abler persons from
taking a leading place in the movement. The damage that results from
that kind of thing may have fatal consequences, especially in a new
movement.

For this reason it is advisable first to propagate and publicly expound
the ideas on which the movement is founded. This work of propaganda
should continue for a certain time and should be directed from one
centre. When the ideas have gradually won over a number of people this
human material should be carefully sifted for the purpose of selecting
those who have ability in leadership and putting that ability to the
test. It will often be found that apparently insignificant persons will
nevertheless turn out to be born leaders.

Of course, it is quite a mistake to suppose that those who show a very
intelligent grasp of the theory underlying a movement are for that
reason qualified to fill responsible positions on the directorate. The
contrary is very frequently the case.

Great masters of theory are only very rarely great organizers also. And
this is because the greatness of the theorist and founder of a system
consists in being able to discover and lay down those laws that are
right in the abstract, whereas the organizer must first of all be a man
of psychological insight. He must take men as they are, and for that
reason he must know them, not having too high or too low an estimate of
human nature. He must take account of their weaknesses, their baseness
and all the other various characteristics, so as to form something out
of them which will be a living organism, endowed with strong powers of
resistance, fitted to be the carrier of an idea and strong enough to
ensure the triumph of that idea.

But it is still more rare to find a great theorist who is at the same
time a great leader. For the latter must be more of an agitator, a truth
that will not be readily accepted by many of those who deal with
problems only from the scientific standpoint. And yet what I say is only
natural. For an agitator who shows himself capable of expounding ideas
to the great masses must always be a psychologist, even though he may be
only a demagogue. Therefore he will always be a much more capable leader
than the contemplative theorist who meditates on his ideas, far from the
human throng and the world. For to be a leader means to be able to move
the masses. The gift of formulating ideas has nothing whatsoever to do
with the capacity for leadership. It would be entirely futile to discuss
the question as to which is the more important: the faculty of
conceiving ideals and human aims or that of being able to have them put
into practice. Here, as so often happens in life, the one would be
entirely meaningless without the other. The noblest conceptions of the
human understanding remain without purpose or value if the leader cannot
move the masses towards them. And, conversely, what would it avail to
have all the genius and elan of a leader if the intellectual theorist
does not fix the aims for which mankind must struggle. But when the
abilities of theorist and organizer and leader are united in the one
person, then we have the rarest phenomenon on this earth. And it is that
union which produces the great man.

As I have already said, during my first period in the Party I devoted
myself to the work of propaganda. I had to succeed in gradually
gathering together a small nucleus of men who would accept the new
teaching and be inspired by it. And in this way we should provide the
human material which subsequently would form the constituent elements of
the organization. Thus the goal of the propagandist is nearly always
fixed far beyond that of the organizer.

If a movement proposes to overthrow a certain order of things and
construct a new one in its place, then the following principles must be
clearly understood and must dominate in the ranks of its leadership:
Every movement which has gained its human material must first divide
this material into two groups: namely, followers and members.

It is the task of the propagandist to recruit the followers and it is
the task of the organizer to select the members.

The follower of a movement is he who understands and accepts its aims;
the member is he who fights for them.

The follower is one whom the propaganda has converted to the doctrine of
the movement. The member is he who will be charged by the organization
to collaborate in winning over new followers from which in turn new
members can be formed.

To be a follower needs only the passive recognition of the idea. To be a
member means to represent that idea and fight for it. From ten followers
one can have scarcely more than two members. To be a follower simply
implies that a man has accepted the teaching of the movement; whereas to
be a member means that a man has the courage to participate actively in
diffusing that teaching in which he has come to believe.

Because of its passive character, the simple effort of believing in a
political doctrine is enough for the majority, for the majority of
mankind is mentally lazy and timid. To be a member one must be
intellectually active, and therefore this applies only to the minority.

Such being the case, the propagandist must seek untiringly to acquire
new followers for the movement, whereas the organizer must diligently
look out for the best elements among such followers, so that these
elements may be transformed into members. The propagandist need not
trouble too much about the personal worth of the individual proselytes
he has won for the movement. He need not inquire into their abilities,
their intelligence or character. From these proselytes, however, the
organizer will have to select those individuals who are most capable of
actively helping to bring the movement to victory.

The propagandist aims at inducing the whole people to accept his
teaching. The organizer includes in his body of membership only those
who, on psychological grounds, will not be an impediment to the further
diffusion of the doctrines of the movement.

The propagandist inculcates his doctrine among the masses, with the idea
of preparing them for the time when this doctrine will triumph, through
the body of combatant members which he has formed from those followers
who have given proof of the necessary ability and will-power to carry
the struggle to victory.

The final triumph of a doctrine will be made all the more easy if the
propagandist has effectively converted large bodies of men to the belief
in that doctrine and if the organization that actively conducts the
fight be exclusive, vigorous and solid.

When the propaganda work has converted a whole people to believe in a
doctrine, the organization can turn the results of this into practical
effect through the work of a mere handful of men. Propaganda and
organization, therefore follower and member, then stand towards one
another in a definite mutual relationship. The better the propaganda has
worked, the smaller will the organization be. The greater the number of
followers, so much the smaller can be the number of members. And
conversely. If the propaganda be bad, the organization must be large.
And if there be only a small number of followers, the membership must be
all the larger--if the movement really counts on being successful.

The first duty of the propagandist is to win over people who can
subsequently be taken into the organization. And the first duty of the
organization is to select and train men who will be capable of carrying
on the propaganda. The second duty of the organization is to disrupt the
existing order of things and thus make room for the penetration of the
new teaching which it represents, while the duty of the organizer must
be to fight for the purpose of securing power, so that the doctrine may
finally triumph.

A revolutionary conception of the world and human existence will always
achieve decisive success when the new WELTANSCHAUUNG has been taught to
a whole people, or subsequently forced upon them if necessary, and when,
on the other hand, the central organization, the movement itself, is in
the hands of only those few men who are absolutely indispensable to form
the nerve-centres of the coming State.

Put in another way, this means that in every great revolutionary
movement that is of world importance the idea of this movement must
always be spread abroad through the operation of propaganda. The
propagandist must never tire in his efforts to make the new ideas
clearly understood, inculcating them among others, or at least he must
place himself in the position of those others and endeavour to upset
their confidence in the convictions they have hitherto held. In order
that such propaganda should have backbone to it, it must be based on an
organization. The organization chooses its members from among those
followers whom the propaganda has won. That organization will become all
the more vigorous if the work of propaganda be pushed forward
intensively. And the propaganda will work all the better when the
organization back of it is vigorous and strong in itself.

Hence the supreme task of the organizer is to see to it that any discord
or differences which may arise among the members of the movement will
not lead to a split and thereby cramp the work within the movement.
Moreover, it is the duty of the organization to see that the fighting
spirit of the movement does not flag or die out but that it is
constantly reinvigorated and restrengthened. It is not necessary the
number of members should increase indefinitely. Quite the contrary would
be better. In view of the fact that only a fraction of humanity has
energy and courage, a movement which increases its own organization
indefinitely must of necessity one day become plethoric and inactive.
Organizations, that is to say, groups of members, which increase their
size beyond certain dimensions gradually lose their fighting force and
are no longer in form to back up the propagation of a doctrine with
aggressive elan and determination.

Now the greater and more revolutionary a doctrine is, so much the more
active will be the spirit inspiring its body of members, because the
subversive energy of such a doctrine will frighten way the
chicken-hearted and small-minded bourgeoisie. In their hearts they may
believe in the doctrine but they are afraid to acknowledge their belief
openly. By reason of this very fact, however, an organization inspired
by a veritable revolutionary idea will attract into the body of its
membership only the most active of those believers who have been won for
it by its propaganda. It is in this activity on the part of the
membership body, guaranteed by the process of natural selection, that we
are to seek the prerequisite conditions for the continuation of an
active and spirited propaganda and also the victorious struggle for the
success of the idea on which the movement is based.

The greatest danger that can threaten a movement is an abnormal increase
in the number of its members, owing to its too rapid success. So long as
a movement has to carry on a hard and bitter fight, people of weak and
fundamentally egotistic temperament will steer very clear of it; but
these will try to be accepted as members the moment the party achieves a
manifest success in the course of its development.

It is on these grounds that we are to explain why so many movements
which were at first successful slowed down before reaching the
fulfilment of their purpose and, from an inner weakness which could not
otherwise be explained, gave up the struggle and finally disappeared
from the field. As a result of the early successes achieved, so many
undesirable, unworthy and especially timid individuals became members of
the movement that they finally secured the majority and stifled the
fighting spirit of the others. These inferior elements then turned the
movement to the service of their personal interests and, debasing it to
the level of their own miserable heroism, no longer struggled for the
triumph of the original idea. The fire of the first fervour died out,
the fighting spirit flagged and, as the bourgeois world is accustomed to
say very justly in such cases, the party mixed water with its wine.

For this reason it is necessary that a movement should, from the sheer
instinct of self-preservation, close its lists to new membership the
moment it becomes successful. And any further increase in its
organization should be allowed to take place only with the most careful
foresight and after a painstaking sifting of those who apply for
membership. Only thus will it be possible to keep the kernel of the
movement intact and fresh and sound. Care must be taken that the conduct
of the movement is maintained exclusively in the hands of this original
nucleus. This means that the nucleus must direct the propaganda which
aims at securing general recognition for the movement. And the movement
itself, when it has secured power in its hands, must carry out all those
acts and measures which are necessary in order that its ideas should be
finally established in practice.

With those elements that originally made the movement, the organization
should occupy all the important positions that have been conquered and
from those elements the whole directorate should be formed. This should
continue until the maxims and doctrines of the party have become the
foundation and policy of the new State. Only then will it be permissible
gradually to give the reins into the hands of the Constitution of that
State which the spirit of the movement has created. But this usually
happens through a process of mutual rivalry, for here it is less a
question of human intelligence than of the play and effect of the forces
whose development may indeed be foreseen from the start but not
perpetually controlled.

All great movements, whether of a political or religious nature, owe
their imposing success to the recognition and adoption of those
principles. And no durable success is conceivable if these laws are not
observed.

As director of propaganda for the party, I took care not merely to
prepare the ground for the greatness of the movement in its subsequent
stages, but I also adopted the most radical measures against allowing
into the organization any other than the best material. For the more
radical and exciting my propaganda was, the more did it frighten weak
and wavering characters away, thus preventing them from entering the
first nucleus of our organization. Perhaps they remained followers, but
they did not raise their voices. On the contrary, they maintained a
discreet silence on the fact. Many thousands of persons then assured me
that they were in full agreement with us but they could not on any
account become members of our party. They said that the movement was so
radical that to take part in it as members would expose them to grave
censures and grave dangers, so that they would rather continue to be
looked upon as honest and peaceful citizens and remain aside, for the
time being at least, though devoted to our cause with all their hearts.

And that was all to the good. If all these men who in their hearts did
not approve of revolutionary ideas came into our movement as members at
that time, we should be looked upon as a pious confraternity to-day and
not as a young movement inspired with the spirit of combat.

The lively and combative form which I gave to all our propaganda
fortified and guaranteed the radical tendency of our movement, and the
result was that, with a few exceptions, only men of radical views were
disposed to become members.

It was due to the effect of our propaganda that within a short period of
time hundreds of thousands of citizens became convinced in their hearts
that we were right and wished us victory, although personally they were
too timid to make sacrifices for our cause or even participate in it.

Up to the middle of 1921 this simple activity of gathering in followers
was sufficient and was of value to the movement. But in the summer of
that year certain events happened which made it seem opportune for us to
bring our organization into line with the manifest successes which the
propaganda had achieved.

An attempt made by a group of patriotic visionaries, supported by the
chairman of the party at that time, to take over the direction of the
party led to the break up of this little intrigue and, by a unanimous
vote at a general meeting, entrusted the entire direction of the party
to my own hands. At the same time a new statute was passed which
invested sole responsibility in the chairman of the movement, abolished
the system of resolutions in committee and in its stead introduced the
principle of division of labour which since that time has worked
excellently.

From August 1st, 1921, onwards I undertook this internal reorganization
of the party and was supported by a number of excellent men. I shall
mention them and their work individually later on.

In my endeavour to turn the results gained by the propaganda to the
advantage of the organization and thus stabilize them, I had to abolish
completely a number of old customs and introduce regulations which none
of the other parties possessed or had adopted.

In the years 1920-21 the movement was controlled by a committee elected
by the members at a general meeting. The committee was composed of a
first and second treasurer, a first and second secretary, and a first
and second chairman at the head of it. In addition to these there was a
representative of the members, the director of propaganda, and various
assessors.

Comically enough, the committee embodied the very principle against
which the movement itself wanted to fight with all its energy, namely,
the principle of parliamentarianism. Here was a principle which
personified everything that was being opposed by the movement, from the
smallest local groups to the district and regional groups, the state
groups and finally the national directorate itself. It was a system
under which we all suffered and are still suffering.

It was imperative to change this state of affairs forthwith, if this bad
foundation in the internal organization was not to keep the movement
insecure and render the fulfilment of its high mission impossible.

The sessions of the committee, which were ruled by a protocol, and in
which decisions were made according to the vote of the majority,
presented the picture of a miniature parliament. Here also there was no
such thing as personal responsibility. And here reigned the same
absurdities and illogical state of affairs as flourish in our great
representative bodies of the State. Names were presented to this
committee for election as secretaries, treasurers, representatives of
the members of the organization, propaganda agents and God knows what
else. And then they all acted in common on every particular question and
decided it by vote. Accordingly, the director of propaganda voted on a
question that concerned the man who had to do with the finances and the
latter in his turn voted on a question that concerned only the
organization as such, the organizer voting on a subject that had to do
with the secretarial department, and so on.

Why select a special man for propaganda if treasurers and scribes and
commissaries, etc., had to deliver judgment on questions concerning it?
To a person of commonsense that sort of thing seemed as incomprehensible
as it would be if in a great manufacturing concern the board of
directors were to decide on technical questions of production or if,
inversely, the engineers were to decide on questions of administration.

I refused to countenance that kind of folly and after a short time I
ceased to appear at the meetings of the committee. I did nothing else
except attend to my own department of propaganda and I did not permit
any of the others to poke their heads into my activities. Conversely, I
did not interfere in the affairs of others.

When the new statute was approved and I was appointed as president, I
had the necessary authority in my hands and also the corresponding right
to make short shrift of all that nonsense. In the place of decisions by
the majority vote of the committee, the principle of absolute
responsibility was introduced.

The chairman is responsible for the whole control of the movement. He
apportions the work among the members of the committee subordinate to
him and for special work he selects other individuals. Each of these
gentlemen must bear sole responsibility for the task assigned to him. He
is subordinate only to the chairman, whose duty is to supervise the
general collaboration, selecting the personnel and giving general
directions for the co-ordination of the common work.

This principle of absolute responsibility is being adopted little by
little throughout the movement. In the small local groups and perhaps
also in the regional and district groups it will take yet a long time
before the principle can be thoroughly imposed, because timid and
hesitant characters are naturally opposed to it. For them the idea of
bearing absolute responsibility for an act opens up an unpleasant
prospect. They would like to hide behind the shoulders of the majority
in the so-called committee, having their acts covered by decisions
passed in that way. But it seems to me a matter of absolute necessity to
take a decisive stand against that view, to make no concessions
whatsoever to this fear of responsibility, even though it takes some
time before we can put fully into effect this concept of duty and
ability in leadership, which will finally bring forward leaders who have
the requisite abilities to occupy the chief posts.

In any case, a movement which must fight against the absurdity of
parliamentary institutions must be immune from this sort of thing. Only
thus will it have the requisite strength to carry on the struggle.

At a time when the majority dominates everywhere else a movement which
is based on the principle of one leader who has to bear personal
responsibility for the direction of the official acts of the movement
itself will one day overthrow the present situation and triumph over the
existing regime. That is a mathematical certainty.

This idea made it necessary to reorganize our movement internally. The
logical development of this reorganization brought about a clear-cut
distinction between the economic section of the movement and the general
political direction. The principle of personal responsibility was
extended to all the administrative branches of the party and it brought
about a healthy renovation, by liberating them from political influences
and allowing them to operate solely on economic principles.

In the autumn of 1921, when the party was founded, there were only six
members. The party did not have any headquarters, nor officials, nor
formularies, nor a stamp, nor printed material of any sort. The
committee first held its sittings in a restaurant on the Herrengasse and
then in a cafe' at Gasteig. This state of affairs could not last. So I at
once took action in the matter. I went around to several restaurants and
hotels in Munich, with the idea of renting a room in one of them for the
use of the Party. In the old Sterneckerbra"u im Tal, there was a small
room with arched roof, which in earlier times was used as a sort of
festive tavern where the Bavarian Counsellors of the Holy Roman Empire
foregathered. It was dark and dismal and accordingly well suited to its
ancient uses, though less suited to the new purpose it was now destined
to serve. The little street on which its one window looked out was so
narrow that even on the brightest summer day the room remained dim and
sombre. Here we took up our first fixed abode. The rent came to fifty
marks per month, which was then an enormous sum for us. But our
exigencies had to be very modest. We dared not complain even when they
removed the wooden wainscoting a few days after we had taken possession.
This panelling had been specially put up for the Imperial Counsellors.
The place began to look more like a grotto than an office.

Still it marked an important step forward. Slowly we had electric light
installed and later on a telephone. A table and some borrowed chairs
were brought, an open paper-stand and later on a cupboard. Two
sideboards, which belonged to the landlord, served to store our
leaflets, placards, etc.

As time went on it turned out impossible to direct the course of the
movement merely by holding a committee meeting once a week. The current
business administration of the movement could not be regularly attended
to except we had a salaried official.

But that was then very difficult for us. The movement had still so few
members that it was hard to find among them a suitable person for the
job who would be content with very little for himself and at the same
time would be ready to meet the manifold demands which the movement
would make on his time and energy.

After long searching we discovered a soldier who consented to become our
first administrator. His name was Schu"ssler, an old war comrade of mine.
At first he came to our new office every day between six and eight
o'clock in the evening. Later on he came from five to eight and
subsequently for the whole afternoon. Finally it became a full-time job
and he worked in the office from morning until late at night. He was an
industrious, upright and thoroughly honest man, faithful and devoted to
the movement. He brought with him a small Adler typewriter of his own.
It was the first machine to be used in the service of the party.
Subsequently the party bought it by paying for it in installments. We
needed a small safe in order to keep our papers and register of
membership from danger of being stolen--not to guard our funds, which
did not then exist. On the contrary, our financial position was so
miserable that I often had to dip my hand into my own personal savings.

After eighteen months our business quarters had become too small, so we
moved to a new place in the Cornelius Strasse. Again our office was in a
restaurant, but instead of one room we now had three smaller rooms and
one large room with great windows. At that time this appeared a
wonderful thing to us. We remained there until the end of November 1923.

In December 1920, we acquired the VO"LKISCHER BEOBACHTER. This newspaper
which, as its name implies, championed the claims of the people, was now
to become the organ of the German National Socialist Labour Party. At
first it appeared twice weekly; but at the beginning of 1928 it became a
daily paper, and at the end of August in the same year it began to
appear in the large format which is now well known.

As a complete novice in journalism I then learned many a lesson for
which I had to pay dearly.

In contradistinction to the enormous number of papers in Jewish hands,
there was at that time only one important newspaper that defended the
cause of the people. This was a matter for grave consideration. As I
have often learned by experience, the reason for that state of things
must be attributed to the incompetent way in which the business side of
the so-called popular newspapers was managed. These were conducted too
much according to the rule that opinion should prevail over action that
produces results. Quite a wrong standpoint, for opinion is of itself
something internal and finds its best expression in productive activity.
The man who does valuable work for his people expresses thereby his
excellent sentiments, whereas another who merely talks about his
opinions and does nothing that is of real value or use to the people is
a person who perverts all right thinking. And that attitude of his is
also pernicious for the community.

The VO"LKISCHE BEOBACHTER was a so-called 'popular' organ, as its name
indicated. It had all the good qualities, but still more the errors and
weaknesses, inherent in all popular institutions. Though its contents
were excellent, its management as a business concern was simply
impossible. Here also the underlying idea was that popular newspapers
ought to be subsidized by popular contributions, without recognizing
that it had to make its way in competition with the others and that it
was dishonest to expect the subscriptions of good patriots to make up
for the mistaken management of the undertaking.

I took care to alter those conditions promptly, for I recognized the
danger lurking in them. Luck was on my side here, inasmuch as it brought
me the man who since that time has rendered innumerable services to the
movement, not only as business manager of the newspaper but also as
business manager of the party. In 1914, in the War, I made the
acquaintance of Max Amann, who was then my superior and is to-day
general business Director of the Party. During four years in the War I
had occasion to observe almost continually the unusual ability, the
diligence and the rigorous conscientiousness of my future collaborator.

In the summer of 1921 I applied to my old regimental comrade, whom I met
one day by chance, and asked him to become business manager of the
movement. At that time the movement was passing through a grave crisis
and I had reason to be dissatisfied with several of our officials, with
one of whom I had had a very bitter experience. Amann then held a good
situation in which there were also good prospects for him.

After long hesitation he agreed to my request, but only on condition
that he must not be at the mercy of incompetent committees. He must be
responsible to one master, and only one.

It is to the inestimable credit of this first business manager of the
party, whose commercial knowledge is extensive and profound, that he
brought order and probity into the various offices of the party. Since
that time these have remained exemplary and cannot be equalled or
excelled in this by any other branches of the movement. But, as often
happens in life, great ability provokes envy and disfavour. That had
also to be expected in this case and borne patiently.

Since 1922 rigorous regulations have been in force, not only for the
commercial construction of the movement but also in the organization of
it as such. There exists now a central filing system, where the names
and particulars of all the members are enrolled. The financing of the
party has been placed on sound lines. The current expenditure must be
covered by the current receipts and special receipts can be used only
for special expenditures. Thus, notwithstanding the difficulties of the
time the movement remained practically without any debts, except for a
few small current accounts. Indeed, there was a permanent increase in
the funds. Things are managed as in a private business. The employed
personnel hold their jobs in virtue of their practical efficiency and
could not in any manner take cover behind their professed loyalty to the
party. A good National Socialist proves his soundness by the readiness,
diligence and capability with which he discharges whatever duties are
assigned to him in whatever situation he holds within the national
community. The man who does not fulfil his duty in the job he holds
cannot boast of a loyalty against which he himself really sins.

Adamant against all kinds of outer influence, the new business director
of the party firmly maintained the standpoint that there were no
sinecure posts in the party administration for followers and members of
the movement whose pleasure is not work. A movement which fights so
energetically against the corruption introduced into our civil service
by the various political parties must be immune from that vice in its
own administrative department. It happened that some men were taken on
the staff of the paper who had formerly been adherents of the Bavarian
People's Party, but their work showed that they were excellently
qualified for the job. The result of this experiment was generally
excellent. It was owing to this honest and frank recognition of
individual efficiency that the movement won the hearts of its employees
more swiftly and more profoundly than had ever been the case before.
Subsequently they became good National Socialists and remained so. Not
in word only, but they proved it by the steady and honest and
conscientious work which they performed in the service of the new
movement. Naturally a well qualified party member was preferred to
another who had equal qualifications but did not belong to the party.
The rigid determination with which our new business chief applied these
principles and gradually put them into force, despite all
misunderstandings, turned out to be of great advantage to the movement.
To this we owe the fact that it was possible for us--during the
difficult period of the inflation, when thousands of businesses failed
and thousands of newspapers had to cease publication--not only to keep
the commercial department of the movement going and meet all its
obligations but also to make steady progress with the VO"LKISCHE
BEOBACHTER. At that time it came to be ranked among the great
newspapers.

The year 1921 was of further importance for me by reason of the fact
that in my position as chairman of the party I slowly but steadily
succeeded in putting a stop to the criticisms and the intrusions of some
members of the committee in regard to the detailed activities of the
party administration. This was important, because we could not get a
capable man to take on a job if nincompoops were constantly allowed to
butt in, pretending that they knew everything much better; whereas in
reality they had left only general chaos behind them. Then these
wise-acres retired, for the most part quite modestly, to seek another
field for their activities where they could supervise and tell how
things ought to be done. Some men seemed to have a mania for sniffing
behind everything and were, so to say, always in a permanent state of
pregnancy with magnificent plans and ideas and projects and methods.
Naturally their noble aim and ideal were always the formation of a
committee which could pretend to be an organ of control in order to be
able to sniff as experts into the regular work done by others. But it is
offensive and contrary to the spirit of National Socialism when
incompetent people constantly interfere in the work of capable persons.
But these makers of committees do not take that very much into account.
In those years I felt it my duty to safeguard against such annoyance all
those who were entrusted with regular and responsible work, so that
there should be no spying over the shoulder and they would be guaranteed
a free hand in their day's work.

The best means of making committees innocuous, which either did nothing
or cooked up impracticable decisions, was to give them some real work to
do. It was then amusing to see how the members would silently fade away
and were soon nowhere to be found. It made me think of that great
institution of the same kind, the Reichstag. How quickly they would
evanesce if they were put to some real work instead of talking,
especially if each member were made personally responsible for the work
assigned to him.

I always demanded that, just as in private life so also in the movement,
one should not tire of seeking until the best and honestest and
manifestly the most competent person could be found for the position of
leader or administrator in each section of the movement. Once installed
in his position he was given absolute authority and full freedom of
action towards his subordinates and full responsibility towards his
superiors. Nobody was placed in a position of authority towards his
subordinates unless he himself was competent in the work entrusted to
them. In the course of two years I brought my views more and more into
practice; so that to-day, at least as far as the higher direction of the
movement is concerned, they are accepted as a matter of course.

The manifest success of this attitude was shown on November 9th, 1923.
Four years previously, when I entered the movement, it did not have even
a rubber stamp. On November 9th, 1923, the party was dissolved and its
property confiscated. The total sum realized by all the objects of value
and the paper amounted to more than 170,000 gold marks.




CHAPTER XII



THE PROBLEM OF THE TRADE UNIONS


Owing to the rapid growth of the movement, in 1922 we felt compelled to
take a definite stand on a question which has not been fully solved even
yet.

In our efforts to discover the quickest and easiest way for the movement
to reach the heart of the broad masses we were always confronted with
the objection that the worker could never completely belong to us while
his interests in the purely vocational and economic sphere were cared
for by a political organization conducted by men whose principles were
quite different from ours.

That was quite a serious objection. The general belief was that a
workman engaged in some trade or other could not exist if he did not
belong to a trade union. Not only were his professional interests thus
protected but a guarantee of permanent employment was simply
inconceivable without membership in a trade union. The majority of the
workers were in the trades unions. Generally speaking, the unions had
successfully conducted the battle for the establishment of a definite
scale of wages and had concluded agreements which guaranteed the worker
a steady income. Undoubtedly the workers in the various trades benefited
by the results of that campaign and, for honest men especially,
conflicts of conscience must have arisen if they took the wages which
had been assured through the struggle fought by the trades unions and if
at the same time the men themselves withdrew from the fight.

It was difficult to discuss this problem with the average bourgeois
employer. He had no understanding (or did not wish to have any) for
either the material or moral side of the question. Finally he declared
that his own economic interests were in principle opposed to every kind
of organization which joined together the workmen that were dependent on
him. Hence it was for the most part impossible to bring these bourgeois
employers to take an impartial view of the situation. Here, therefore,
as in so many other cases, it was necessary to appeal to disinterested
outsiders who would not be subject to the temptation of fixing their
attention on the trees and failing to see the forest. With a little good
will on their part, they could much more easily understand a state of
affairs which is of the highest importance for our present and future
existence.

In the first volume of this book I have already expressed my views on
the nature and purpose and necessity of trade unions. There I took up
the standpoint that unless measures are undertaken by the State (usually
futile in such cases) or a new ideal is introduced in our education,
which would change the attitude of the employer towards the worker, no
other course would be open to the latter except to defend his own
interests himself by appealing to his equal rights as a contracting
party within the economic sphere of the nation's existence. I stated
further that this would conform to the interests of the national
community if thereby social injustices could be redressed which
otherwise would cause serious damage to the whole social structure. I
stated, moreover, that the worker would always find it necessary to
undertake this protective action as long as there were men among the
employers who had no sense of their social obligations nor even of the
most elementary human rights. And I concluded by saying that if such
self-defence be considered necessary its form ought to be that of an
association made up of the workers themselves on the basis of trades
unions.

This was my general idea and it remained the same in 1922. But a clear
and precise formula was still to be discovered. We could not be
satisfied with merely understanding the problem. It was necessary to
come to some conclusions that could be put into practice. The following
questions had to be answered:

(1) Are trade unions necessary?

(2) Should the German National Socialist Labour Party itself operate on
a trade unionist basis or have its members take part in trade unionist
activities in some form or other?

(3) What form should a National Socialist Trades Union take? What are
the tasks confronting us and the ends we must try to attain?

(4) How can we establish trade unions for such tasks and aims?

I think that I have already answered the first question adequately. In
the present state of affairs I am convinced that we cannot possibly
dispense with the trades unions. On the contrary, they are among the
most important institutions in the economic life of the nation. Not only
are they important in the sphere of social policy but also, and even
more so, in the national political sphere. For when the great masses of
a nation see their vital needs satisfied through a just trade unionist
movement the stamina of the whole nation in its struggle for existence
will be enormously reinforced thereby.

Before everything else, the trades unions are necessary as building
stones for the future economic parliament, which will be made up of
chambers representing the various professions and occupations.

The second question is also easy to answer. If the trade unionist
movement is important, then it is clear that National Socialism ought to
take a definite stand on that question, not only theoretically but also
in practice. But how? That is more difficult to see clearly.

The National Socialist Movement, which aims at establishing the National
Socialist People's State, must always bear steadfastly in mind the
principle that every future institution under that State must be rooted
in the movement itself. It is a great mistake to believe that by
acquiring possession of supreme political power we can bring about a
definite reorganization, suddenly starting from nothing, without the
help of a certain reserve stock of men who have been trained beforehand,
especially in the spirit of the movement. Here also the principle holds
good that the spirit is always more important than the external form
which it animates; since this form can be created mechanically and
quickly. For instance, the leadership principle may be imposed on an
organized political community in a dictatorial way. But this principle
can become a living reality only by passing through the stages that are
necessary for its own evolution. These stages lead from the smallest
cell of the State organism upwards. As its bearers and representatives,
the leadership principle must have a body of men who have passed through
a process of selection lasting over several years, who have been
tempered by the hard realities of life and thus rendered capable of
carrying the principle into practical effect.

It is out of the question to think that a scheme for the Constitution of
a State can be pulled out of a portfolio at a moment's notice and
'introduced' by imperative orders from above. One may try that kind of
thing but the result will always be something that has not sufficient
vitality to endure. It will be like a stillborn infant. The idea of it
calls to mind the origin of the Weimar Constitution and the attempt to
impose on the German people a new Constitution and a new flag, neither
of which had any inner relation to the vicissitudes of our people's
history during the last half century.

The National Socialist State must guard against all such experiments. It
must grow out of an organization which has already existed for a long
time. This organization must possess National Socialist life in itself,
so that finally it may be able to establish a National Socialist State
that will be a living reality.

As I have already said, the germ cells of this State must lie in the
administrative chambers which will represent the various occupations and
professions, therefore first of all in the trades unions. If this
subsequent vocational representation and the Central Economic Parliament
are to be National Socialist institutions, these important germ cells
must be vehicles of the National Socialist concept of life. The
institutions of the movement are to be brought over into the State; for
the State cannot call into existence all of a sudden and as if by magic
those institutions which are necessary to its existence, unless it
wishes to have institutions that are bound to remain completely
lifeless.

Looking at the matter from the highest standpoint, the National
Socialist Movement will have to recognize the necessity of adopting its
own trade-unionist policy.

It must do this for a further reason, namely because a real National
Socialist education for the employer as well as for the employee, in the
spirit of a mutual co-operation within the common framework of the
national community, cannot be secured by theoretical instruction,
appeals and exhortations, but through the struggles of daily life. In
this spirit and through this spirit the movement must educate the
several large economic groups and bring them closer to one another under
a wider outlook. Without this preparatory work it would be sheer
illusion to hope that a real national community can be brought into
existence. The great ideal represented by its philosophy of life and for
which the movement fights can alone form a general style of thought
steadily and slowly. And this style will show that the new state of
things rests on foundations that are internally sound and not merely an
external fac,ade.

Hence the movement must adopt a positive attitude towards the
trade-unionist idea. But it must go further than this. For the enormous
number of members and followers of the trade-unionist movement it must
provide a practical education which will meet the exigencies of the
coming National Socialist State.

The answer to the third question follows from what has been already
said.

The National Socialist Trades Union is not an instrument for class
warfare, but a representative organ of the various occupations and
callings. The National Socialist State recognizes no 'classes'. But,
under the political aspect, it recognizes only citizens with absolutely
equal rights and equal obligations corresponding thereto. And, side by
side with these, it recognizes subjects of the State who have no
political rights whatsoever.

According to the National Socialist concept, it is not the task of the
trades union to band together certain men within the national community
and thus gradually transform these men into a class, so as to use them
in a conflict against other groups similarly organized within the
national community. We certainly cannot assign this task to the trades
union as such. This was the task assigned to it the moment it became a
fighting weapon in the hands of the Marxists. The trades union is not
naturally an instrument of class warfare; but the Marxists transformed
it into an instrument for use in their own class struggle. They created
the economic weapon which the international Jew uses for the purpose of
destroying the economic foundations of free and independent national
States, for ruining their national industry and trade and thereby
enslaving free nations to serve Jewish world-finance, which transcends
all State boundaries.

In contradistinction to this, the National Socialist Trades Union must
organize definite groups and those who participate in the economic life
of the nation and thus enhance the security of the national economic
system itself, reinforcing it by the elimination of all those anomalies
which ultimately exercise a destructive influence on the social body of
the nation, damaging the vital forces of the national community,
prejudicing the welfare of the State and, by no means as a last
consequence, bringing evil and destruction on economic life itself.

Therefore in the hands of the National Socialist Trades Union the strike
is not an instrument for disturbing and dislocating the national
production, but for increasing it and making it run smoothly, by
fighting against all those annoyances which by reason of their unsocial
character hinder efficiency in business and thereby hamper the existence
of the whole nation. For individual efficiency stands always in casual
relation to the general social and juridical position of the individual
in the economic process. Individual efficiency is also the sole root of
the conviction that the economic prosperity of the nation must
necessarily redound to the benefit of the individual citizen.

The National Socialist employee will have to recognize the fact that the
economic prosperity of the nation brings with it his own material
happiness.

The National Socialist employer must recognize that the happiness and
contentment of his employees are necessary pre-requisites for the
existence and development of his own economic prosperity.

National Socialist workers and employers are both together the delegates
and mandatories of the whole national community. The large measure of
personal freedom which is accorded to them for their activities must be
explained by the fact that experience has shown that the productive
powers of the individual are more enhanced by being accorded a generous
measure of freedom than by coercion from above. Moreover, by according
this freedom we give free play to the natural process of selection which
brings forward the ablest and most capable and most industrious. For the
National Socialist Trades Union, therefore, the strike is a means that
may, and indeed must, be resorted to as long as there is not a National
Socialist State yet. But when that State is established it will, as a
matter of course, abolish the mass struggle between the two great groups
made up of employers and employees respectively, a struggle which has
always resulted in lessening the national production and injuring the
national community. In place of this struggle, the National Socialist
State will take over the task of caring for and defending the rights of
all parties concerned. It will be the duty of the Economic Chamber
itself to keep the national economic system in smooth working order and
to remove whatever defects or errors it may suffer from. Questions that
are now fought over through a quarrel that involves millions of people
will then be settled in the Representative Chambers of Trades and
Professions and in the Central Economic Parliament. Thus employers and
employees will no longer find themselves drawn into a mutual conflict
over wages and hours of work, always to the detriment of their mutual
interests. But they will solve these problems together on a higher
plane, where the welfare of the national community and of the State will
be as a shining ideal to throw light on all their negotiations.

Here again, as everywhere else, the inflexible principle must be
observed, that the interests of the country must come before party
interests.

The task of the National Socialist Trades Union will be to educate and
prepare its members to conform to these ideals. That task may be stated
as follows: All must work together for the maintenance and security of
our people and the People's State, each one according to the abilities
and powers with which Nature has endowed him and which have been
developed and trained by the national community.

Our fourth question was: How shall we establish trades unions for such
tasks and aims? That is far more difficult to answer.

Generally speaking, it is easier to establish something in new territory
than in old territory which already has its established institutions. In
a district where there is no existing business of a special character
one can easily establish a new business of this character. But it is
more difficult if the same kind of enterprise already exists and it is
most difficult of all when the conditions are such that only one
enterprise of this kind can prosper. For here the promoters of the new
enterprise find themselves confronted not only with the problem of
introducing their own business but also that of how to bring about the
destruction of the other business already existing in the district, so
that the new enterprise may be able to exist.

It would be senseless to have a National Socialist Trades Union side by
side with other trades unions. For this Trades Union must be thoroughly
imbued with a feeling for the ideological nature of its task and of the
resulting obligation not to tolerate other similar or hostile
institutions. It must also insist that itself alone is necessary, to the
exclusion of all the rest. It can come to no arrangement and no
compromise with kindred tendencies but must assert its own absolute and
exclusive right.

There were two ways which might lead to such a development:

(1) We could establish our Trades Union and then gradually take up the
fight against the Marxist International Trades Union.

(2) Or we could enter the Marxist Trades Union and inculcate a new
spirit in it, with the idea of transforming it into an instrument in the
service of the new ideal.

The first way was not advisable, by reason of the fact that our
financial situation was still the cause of much worry to us at that time
and our resources were quite slender. The effects of the inflation were
steadily spreading and made the particular situation still more
difficult for us, because in those years one could scarcely speak of any
material help which the trades unions could extend to their members.
From this point of view, there was no reason why the individual worker
should pay his dues to the union. Even the Marxist unions then existing
were already on the point of collapse until, as the result of Herr
Cuno's enlightened Ruhr policy, millions were suddenly poured into their
coffers. This so-called 'national' Chancellor of the REICH should go
down in history as the Redeemer of the Marxist trades unions.

We could not count on similar financial facilities. And nobody could be
induced to enter a new Trades Union which, on account of its financial
weakness, could not offer him the slightest material benefit. On the
other hand, I felt bound absolutely to guard against the creation of
such an organization which would only be a shelter for shirkers of the
more or less intellectual type.

At that time the question of personnel played the most important role. I
did not have a single man whom I might call upon to carry out this
important task. Whoever could have succeeded at that time in
overthrowing the Marxist unions to make way for the triumph of the
National Socialist corporative idea, which would then take the place of
the ruinous class warfare--such a person would be fit to rank with the
very greatest men our nation has produced and his bust should be
installed in the Valhalla at Regensburg for the admiration of posterity.

But I knew of no person who could qualify for such a pedestal.

In this connection we must not be led astray by the fact that the
international trades unions are conducted by men of only mediocre
significance, for when those unions were founded there was nothing else
of a similar kind already in existence. To-day the National Socialist
Movement must fight against a monster organization which has existed for
a long time, rests on gigantic foundations and is carefully constructed
even in the smallest details. An assailant must always exercise more
intelligence than the defender, if he is to overthrow the latter. The
Marxist trade-unionist citadel may be governed to-day by mediocre
leaders, but it cannot be taken by assault except through the dauntless
energy and genius of a superior leader on the other side. If such a
leader cannot be found it is futile to struggle with Fate and even more
foolish to try to overthrow the existing state of things without being
able to construct a better in its place.

Here one must apply the maxim that in life it is often better to allow
something to go by the board rather than try to half do it or do it
badly, owing to a lack of suitable means.

To this we must add another consideration, which is not at all of a
demagogic character. At that time I had, and I still have to-day, a
firmly rooted conviction that when one is engaged in a great ideological
struggle in the political field it would be a grave mistake to mix up
economic questions with this struggle in its earlier stages. This
applies particularly to our German people. For if such were to happen in
their case the economic struggle would immediately distract the energy
necessary for the political fight. Once the people are brought to
believe that they can buy a little house with their savings they will
devote themselves to the task of increasing their savings and no spare
time will be left to them for the political struggle against those who,
in one way or another, will one day secure possession of the pennies
that have been saved. Instead of participating in the political conflict
on behalf of the opinions and convictions which they have been brought
to accept they will now go further with their 'settlement' idea and in
the end they will find themselves for the most part sitting on the
ground amidst all the stools.

To-day the National Socialist Movement is at the beginning of its
struggle. In great part it must first of all shape and develop its
ideals. It must employ every ounce of its energy in the struggle to have
its great ideal accepted, and the success of this effort is not
conceivable unless the combined energies of the movement be entirely at
the service of this struggle.

To-day we have a classical example of how the active strength of a
people becomes paralysed when that people is too much taken up with
purely economic problems.

The Revolution which took place in November 1918 was not made by the
trades unions, but it was carried out in spite of them. And the people
of Germany did not wage any political fight for the future of their
country because they thought that the future could be sufficiently
secured by constructive work in the economic field.

We must learn a lesson from this experience, because in our case the
same thing must happen under the same circumstances. The more the
combined strength of our movement is concentrated in the political
struggle, the more confidently may we count on being successful along
our whole front. But if we busy ourselves prematurely with trade
unionist problems, settlement problems, etc., it will be to the
disadvantage of our own cause, taken as a whole. For, though these
problems may be important, they cannot be solved in an adequate manner
until we have political power in our hand and are able to use it in the
service of this idea. Until that day comes these problems can have only
a paralysing effect on the movement. And if it takes them up too soon
they will only be a hindrance in the effort to attain its own
ideological aims. It may then easily happen that trade unionist
considerations will control the political direction of the movement,
instead of the ideological aims of the movement directing the way that
the trades unions are to take.

The movement and the nation can derive advantage from a National
Socialist trade unionist organization only if the latter be so
thoroughly inspired by National Socialist ideas that it runs no danger
of falling into step behind the Marxist movement. For a National
Socialist Trades Union which would consider itself only as a competitor
against the Marxist unions would be worse than none. It must declare war
against the Marxist Trades Union, not only as an organization but, above
all, as an idea. It must declare itself hostile to the idea of class and
class warfare and, in place of this, it must declare itself as the
defender of the various occupational and professional interests of the
German people.

Considered from all these points of view it was not then advisable, nor
is it yet advisable, to think of founding our own Trades Union. That
seemed clear to me, at least until somebody appeared who was obviously
called by fate to solve this particular problem.

Therefore there remained only two possible ways. Either to recommend our
own party members to leave the trades unions in which they were enrolled
or to remain in them for the moment, with the idea of causing as much
destruction in them as possible.

In general, I recommended the latter alternative.

Especially in the year 1922-23 we could easily do that. For, during the
period of inflation, the financial advantages which might be reaped from
a trades union organization would be negligible, because we could expect
to enroll only a few members owing to the undeveloped condition of our
movement. The damage which might result from such a policy was all the
greater because its bitterest critics and opponents were to be found
among the followers of the National Socialist Party.

I had already entirely discountenanced all experiments which were
destined from the very beginning to be unsuccessful. I would have
considered it criminal to run the risk of depriving a worker of his
scant earnings in order to help an organization which, according to my
inner conviction, could not promise real advantages to its members.

Should a new political party fade out of existence one day nobody would
be injured thereby and some would have profited, but none would have a
right to complain. For what each individual contributes to a political
movement is given with the idea that it may ultimately come to nothing.
But the man who pays his dues to a trade union has the right to expect
some guarantee in return. If this is not done, then the directors of
such a trade union are swindlers or at least careless people who ought
to be brought to a sense of their responsibilities.

We took all these viewpoints into consideration before making our
decision in 1922. Others thought otherwise and founded trades unions.
They upbraided us for being short-sighted and failing to see into the
future. But it did not take long for these organizations to disappear
and the result was what would have happened in our own case. But the
difference was that we should have deceived neither ourselves nor those
who believed in us.




CHAPTER XIII



THE GERMAN POST-WAR POLICY OF ALLIANCES


The erratic manner in which the foreign affairs of the REICH were
conducted was due to a lack of sound guiding principles for the
formation of practical and useful alliances. Not only was this state of
affairs continued after the Revolution, but it became even worse.

For the confused state of our political ideas in general before the War
may be looked upon as the chief cause of our defective statesmanship;
but in the post-War period this cause must be attributed to a lack of
honest intentions. It was natural that those parties who had fully
achieved their destructive purpose by means of the Revolution should
feel that it would not serve their interests if a policy of alliances
were adopted which must ultimately result in the restoration of a free
German State. A development in this direction would not be in conformity
with the purposes of the November crime. It would have interrupted and
indeed put an end to the internationalization of German national economy
and German Labour. But what was feared most of all was that a successful
effort to make the REICH independent of foreign countries might have an
influence in domestic politics which one day would turn out disastrous
for those who now hold supreme power in the government of the REICH. One
cannot imagine the revival of a nation unless that revival be preceded
by a process of nationalization. Conversely, every important success in
the field of foreign politics must call forth a favourable reaction at
home. Experience proves that every struggle for liberty increases the
national sentiment and national self-consciousness and therewith gives
rise to a keener sensibility towards anti-national elements and
tendencies. A state of things, and persons also, that may be tolerated
and even pass unnoticed in times of peace will not only become the
object of aversion when national enthusiasm is aroused but will even
provoke positive opposition, which frequently turns out disastrous for
them. In this connection we may recall the spy-scare that became
prevalent when the war broke out, when human passion suddenly manifested
itself to such a heightened degree as to lead to the most brutal
persecutions, often without any justifiable grounds, although everybody
knew that the danger resulting from spies is greater during the long
periods of peace; but, for obvious reasons, they do not then attract a
similar amount of public attention. For this reason the subtle instinct
of the State parasites who came to the surface of the national body
through the November happenings makes them feel at once that a policy of
alliances which would restore the freedom of our people and awaken
national sentiment might possibly ruin their own criminal existence.

Thus we may explain the fact that since 1918 the men who have held the
reins of government adopted an entirely negative attitude towards
foreign affairs and that the business of the State has been almost
constantly conducted in a systematic way against the interests of the
German nation. For that which at first sight seemed a matter of chance
proved, on closer examination, to be a logical advance along the road
which was first publicly entered upon by the November Revolution of
1918.

Undoubtedly a distinction ought to be made between (1) the responsible
administrators of our affairs of State, or rather those who ought to be
responsible; (2) the average run of our parliamentary politicasters, and
(3) the masses of our people, whose sheepish docility corresponds to
their want of intelligence.

The first know what they want. The second fall into line with them,
either because they have been already schooled in what is afoot or
because they have not the courage to take an uncompromising stand
against a course which they know and feel to be detrimental. The third
just submit to it because they are too stupid to understand.

While the German National Socialist Labour Party was only a small and
practically unknown society, problems of foreign policy could have only
a secondary importance in the eyes of many of its members. This was the
case especially because our movement has always proclaimed the
principle, and must proclaim it, that the freedom of the country in its
foreign relations is not a gift that will be bestowed upon us by Heaven
or by any earthly Powers, but can only be the fruit of a development of
our inner forces. We must first root out the causes which led to our
collapse and we must eliminate all those who are profiting by that
collapse. Then we shall be in a position to take up the fight for the
restoration of our freedom in the management of our foreign relations.

It will be easily understood therefore why we did not attach so much
importance to foreign affairs during the early stages of our young
movement, but preferred to concentrate on the problem of internal
reform.

But when the small and insignificant society expanded and finally grew
too large for its first framework, the young organization assumed the
importance of a great association and we then felt it incumbent on us to
take a definite stand on problems regarding the development of a foreign
policy. It was necessary to lay down the main lines of action which
would not only be in accord with the fundamental ideas of our
WELTANSCHAUUNG but would actually be an expansion of it in the
practical world of foreign affairs.

Just because our people have had no political education in matters
concerning our relations abroad, it was necessary to teach the leaders
in the various sections of our movement, and also the masses of the
people, the chief principles which ought to guide the development of our
foreign relations. That was one of the first tasks to be accomplished in
order to prepare the ground for the practical carrying out of a foreign
policy which would win back the independence of the nation in managing
its external affairs and thus restore the real sovereignty of the REICH.

The fundamental and guiding principles which we must always bear in mind
when studying this question is that foreign policy is only a means to an
end and that the sole end to be pursued is the welfare of our own
people. Every problem in foreign politics must be considered from this
point of view, and this point of view alone. Shall such and such a
solution prove advantageous to our people now or in the future, or will
it injure their interests? That is the question.

This is the sole preoccupation that must occupy our minds in dealing
with a question. Party politics, religious considerations, humanitarian
ideals--all such and all other preoccupations must absolutely give way
to this.

Before the War the purpose to which German foreign policy should have
been devoted was to assure the supply of material necessities for the
maintenance of our people and their children. And the way should have
been prepared which would lead to this goal. Alliances should have been
established which would have proved beneficial to us from this point of
view and would have brought us the necessary auxiliary support. The task
to be accomplished is the same to-day, but with this difference: In
pre-War times it was a question of caring for the maintenance of the
German people, backed up by the power which a strong and independent
State then possessed, but our task to-day is to make our nation powerful
once again by re-establishing a strong and independent State. The
re-establishment of such a State is the prerequisite and necessary
condition which must be fulfilled in order that we may be able
subsequently to put into practice a foreign policy which will serve to
guarantee the existence of our people in the future, fulfilling their
needs and furnishing them with those necessities of life which they
lack. In other words, the aim which Germany ought to pursue to-day in
her foreign policy is to prepare the way for the recovery of her liberty
to-morrow. In this connection there is a fundamental principle which we
must keep steadily before our minds. It is this: The possibility of
winning back the independence of a nation is not absolutely bound up
with the question of territorial reintegration but it will suffice if a
small remnant, no matter how small, of this nation and State will exist,
provided it possesses the necessary independence to become not only the
vehicle of' the common spirit of the whole people but also to prepare
the way for the military fight to reconquer the nation's liberty.

When a people who amount to a hundred million souls tolerate the yoke of
common slavery in order to prevent the territory belonging to their
State from being broken up and divided, that is worse than if such a
State and such a people were dismembered while one fragment still
retained its complete independence. Of course, the natural proviso here
is that this fragment must be inspired with a consciousness of the
solemn duty that devolves upon it, not only to proclaim persistently the
inviolable unity of its spiritual and cultural life with that of its
detached members but also to prepare the means that are necessary for
the military conflict which will finally liberate and re-unite the
fragments that are suffering under oppression.

One must also bear in mind the fact that the restoration of lost
districts which were formerly parts of the State, both ethnically and
politically, must in the first instance be a question of winning back
political power and independence for the motherland itself, and that in
such cases the special interests of the lost districts must be
uncompromisingly regarded as a matter of secondary importance in the
face of the one main task, which is to win back the freedom of the
central territory. For the detached and oppressed fragments of a nation
or an imperial province cannot achieve their liberation through the
expression of yearnings and protests on the part of the oppressed and
abandoned, but only when the portion which has more or less retained its
sovereign independence can resort to the use of force for the purpose of
reconquering those territories that once belonged to the common
fatherland.

Therefore, in order to reconquer lost territories the first condition to
be fulfilled is to work energetically for the increased welfare and
reinforcement of the strength of that portion of the State which has
remained over after the partition. Thus the unquenchable yearning which
slumbers in the hearts of the people must be awakened and restrengthened
by bringing new forces to its aid, so that when the hour comes all will
be devoted to the one purpose of liberating and uniting the whole
people. Therefore, the interests of the separated territories must be
subordinated to the one purpose. That one purpose must aim at obtaining
for the central remaining portion such a measure of power and might that
will enable it to enforce its will on the hostile will of the victor and
thus redress the wrong. For flaming protests will not restore the
oppressed territories to the bosom of a common REICH. That can be done
only through the might of the sword.

The forging of this sword is a work that has to be done through the
domestic policy which must be adopted by a national government. To see
that the work of forging these arms is assured, and to recruit the men
who will bear them, that is the task of the foreign policy.

In the first volume of this book I discussed the inadequacy of our
policy of alliances before the War. There were four possible ways to
secure the necessary foodstuffs for the maintenance of our people. Of
these ways the fourth, which was the most unfavourable, was chosen.
Instead of a sound policy of territorial expansion in Europe, our rulers
embarked on a policy of colonial and trade expansion. That policy was
all the more mistaken inasmuch as they presumed that in this way the
danger of an armed conflict would be averted. The result of the attempt
to sit on many stools at the same time might have been foreseen. It let
us fall to the ground in the midst of them all. And the World War was
only the last reckoning presented to the REICH to pay for the failure of
its foreign policy.

The right way that should have been taken in those days was the third
way I indicated: namely, to increase the strength of the REICH as a
Continental Power by the acquisition of new territory in Europe. And at
the same time a further expansion, through the subsequent acquisition of
colonial territory, might thus be brought within the range of practical
politics. Of course, this policy could not have been carried through
except in alliance with England, or by devoting such abnormal efforts to
the increase of military force and armament that, for forty or fifty
years, all cultural undertakings would have to be completely relegated
to the background. This responsibility might very well have been
undertaken. The cultural importance of a nation is almost always
dependent on its political freedom and independence. Political freedom
is a prerequisite condition for the existence, or rather the creation,
of great cultural undertakings. Accordingly no sacrifice can be too
great when there is question of securing the political freedom of a
nation. What might have to be deducted from the budget expenses for
cultural purposes, in order to meet abnormal demands for increasing the
military power of the State, can be generously paid back later on.
Indeed, it may be said that after a State has concentrated all its
resources in one effort for the purpose of securing its political
independence a certain period of ease and renewed equilibrium sets in.
And it often happens that the cultural spirit of the nation, which had
been heretofore cramped and confined, now suddenly blooms forth. Thus
Greece experienced the great Periclean era after the miseries it had
suffered during the Persian Wars. And the Roman Republic turned its
energies to the cultivation of a higher civilization when it was freed
from the stress and worry of the Punic Wars.

Of course, it could not be expected that a parliamentary majority of
feckless and stupid people would be capable of deciding on such a
resolute policy for the absolute subordination of all other national
interests to the one sole task of preparing for a future conflict of
arms which would result in establishing the security of the State. The
father of Frederick the Great sacrificed everything in order to be ready
for that conflict; but the fathers of our absurd parliamentarian
democracy, with the Jewish hall-mark, could not do it.

That is why, in pre-War times, the military preparation necessary to
enable us to conquer new territory in Europe was only very mediocre, so
that it was difficult to obtain the support of really helpful allies.

Those who directed our foreign affairs would not entertain even the idea
of systematically preparing for war. They rejected every plan for the
acquisition of territory in Europe. And by preferring a policy of
colonial and trade expansion, they sacrificed the alliance with England,
which was then possible. At the same time they neglected to seek the
support of Russia, which would have been a logical proceeding. Finally
they stumbled into the World War, abandoned by all except the
ill-starred Habsburgs.

The characteristic of our present foreign policy is that it follows no
discernible or even intelligible lines of action. Whereas before the War
a mistake was made in taking the fourth way that I have mentioned, and
this was pursued only in a halfhearted manner, since the Revolution not
even the sharpest eye can detect any way that is being followed. Even
more than before the War, there is absolutely no such thing as a
systematic plan, except the systematic attempts that are made to destroy
the last possibility of a national revival.

If we make an impartial examination of the situation existing in Europe
to-day as far as concerns the relation of the various Powers to one
another, we shall arrive at the following results:

For the past three hundred years the history of our Continent has been
definitely determined by England's efforts to keep the European States
opposed to one another in an equilibrium of forces, thus assuring the
necessary protection of her own rear while she pursued the great aims of
British world-policy.

The traditional tendency of British diplomacy ever since the reign of
Queen Elizabeth has been to employ systematically every possible means
to prevent any one Power from attaining a preponderant position over the
other European Powers and, if necessary, to break that preponderance by
means of armed intervention. The only parallel to this has been the
tradition of the Prussian Army. England has made use of various forces
to carry out its purpose, choosing them according to the actual
situation or the task to be faced; but the will and determination to use
them has always been the same. The more difficult England's position
became in the course of history the more the British Imperial Government
considered it necessary to maintain a condition of political paralysis
among the various European States, as a result of their mutual
rivalries. When the North American colonies obtained their political
independence it became still more necessary for England to use every
effort to establish and maintain the defence of her flank in Europe. In
accordance with this policy she reduced Spain and the Netherlands to the
position of inferior naval Powers. Having accomplished this, England
concentrated all her forces against the increasing strength of France,
until she brought about the downfall of Napoleon Bonaparte and therewith
destroyed the military hegemony of France, which was the most dangerous
rival that England had to fear.

The change of attitude in British statesmanship towards Germany took
place only very slowly, not only because the German nation did not
represent an obvious danger for England as long as it lacked national
unification, but also because public opinion in England, which had been
directed to other quarters by a system of propaganda that had been
carried out for a long time, could be turned to a new direction only by
slow degrees. In order to reach the proposed ends the calmly reflecting
statesman had to bow to popular sentiment, which is the most powerful
motive-force and is at the same time the most lasting in its energy.
When the statesman has attained one of his ends, he must immediately
turn his thoughts to others; but only by degrees and the slow work of
propaganda can the sentiment of the masses be shaped into an instrument
for the attainment of the new aims which their leaders have decided on.

As early as 1870-71 England had decided on the new stand it would take.
On certain occasions minor oscillations in that policy were caused by
the growing influence of America in the commercial markets of the world
and also by the increasing political power of Russia; but,
unfortunately, Germany did not take advantage of these and, therefore,
the original tendency of British diplomacy was only reinforced.

England looked upon Germany as a Power which was of world importance
commercially and politically and which, partly because of its enormous
industrial development, assumed such threatening proportions that the
two countries already contended against one another in the same sphere
and with equal energy. The so-called peaceful conquest of the world by
commercial enterprise, which, in the eyes of those who governed our
public affairs at that time, represented the highest peak of human
wisdom, was just the thing that led English statesmen to adopt a policy
of resistance. That this resistance assumed the form of an organized
aggression on a vast scale was in full conformity with a type of
statesmanship which did not aim at the maintenance of a dubious world
peace but aimed at the consolidation of British world-hegemony. In
carrying out this policy, England allied herself with those countries
which had a definite military importance. And that was in keeping with
her traditional caution in estimating the power of her adversary and
also in recognizing her own temporary weakness. That line of conduct
cannot be called unscrupulous; because such a comprehensive organization
for war purposes must not be judged from the heroic point of view but
from that of expediency. The object of a diplomatic policy must not be
to see that a nation goes down heroically but rather that it survives in
a practical way. Hence every road that leads to this goal is opportune
and the failure to take it must be looked upon as a criminal neglect of
duty.

When the German Revolution took place England's fears of a German world
hegemony came to a satisfactory end.

From that time it was not an English interest to see Germany totally
cancelled from the geographic map of Europe. On the contrary, the
astounding collapse which took place in November 1918 found British
diplomacy confronted with a situation which at first appeared untenable.

For four-and-a-half years the British Empire had fought to break the
presumed preponderance of a Continental Power. A sudden collapse now
happened which removed this Power from the foreground of European
affairs. That collapse disclosed itself finally in the lack of even the
primordial instinct of self-preservation, so that European equilibrium
was destroyed within forty-eight hours. Germany was annihilated and
France became the first political Power on the Continent of Europe.

The tremendous propaganda which was carried on during this war for the
purpose of encouraging the British public to stick it out to the end
aroused all the primitive instincts and passions of the populace and was
bound eventually to hang as a leaden weight on the decisions of British
statesmen. With the colonial, economical and commercial destruction of
Germany, England's war aims were attained. Whatever went beyond those
aims was an obstacle to the furtherance of British interests. Only the
enemies of England could profit by the disappearance of Germany as a
Great Continental Power in Europe. In November 1918, however, and up to
the summer of 1919, it was not possible for England to change its
diplomatic attitude; because during the long war it had appealed, more
than it had ever done before, to the feelings of the populace. In view
of the feeling prevalent among its own people, England could not change
its foreign policy; and another reason which made that impossible was
the military strength to which other European Powers had now attained.
France had taken the direction of peace negotiations into her own hands
and could impose her law upon the others. During those months of
negotiations and bargaining the only Power that could have altered the
course which things were taking was Germany herself; but Germany was
torn asunder by a civil war, and her so-called statesmen had declared
themselves ready to accept any and every dictate imposed on them.

Now, in the comity of nations, when one nation loses its instinct for
self-preservation and ceases to be an active member it sinks to the
level of an enslaved nation and its territory will have to suffer the
fate of a colony.

To prevent the power of France from becoming too great, the only form
which English negotiations could take was that of participating in
France's lust for aggrandizement.

As a matter of fact, England did not attain the ends for which she went
to war. Not only did it turn out impossible to prevent a Continental
Power from obtaining a preponderance over the ratio of strength in the
Continental State system of Europe, but a large measure of preponderance
had been obtained and firmly established.

In 1914 Germany, considered as a military State, was wedged in between
two countries, one of which had equal military forces at its disposal
and the other had greater military resources. Then there was England's
overwhelming supremacy at sea. France and Russia alone hindered and
opposed the excessive aggrandizement of Germany. The unfavourable
geographical situation of the REICH, from the military point of view,
might be looked upon as another coefficient of security against an
exaggerated increase of German power. From the naval point of view, the
configuration of the coast-line was unfavourable in case of a conflict
with England. And though the maritime frontier was short and cramped,
the land frontier was widely extended and open.

France's position is different to-day. It is the first military Power
without a serious rival on the Continent. It is almost entirely
protected by its southern frontier against Spain and Italy. Against
Germany it is safeguarded by the prostrate condition of our country. A
long stretch of its coast-line faces the vital nervous system of the
British Empire. Not only could French aeroplanes and long-range
batteries attack the vital centres of the British system, but submarines
can threaten the great British commercial routes. A submarine campaign
based on France's long Atlantic coast and on the European and North
African coasts of the Mediterranean would have disastrous consequences
for England.

Thus the political results of the war to prevent the development of
German power was the creation of a French hegemony on the Continent. The
military result was the consolidation of France as the first Continental
Power and the recognition of American equality on the sea. The economic
result was the cession of great spheres of British interests to her
former allies and associates.

The Balkanization of Europe, up to a certain degree, was desirable and
indeed necessary in the light of the traditional policy of Great
Britain, just as France desired the Balkanization of Germany.

What England has always desired, and will continue to desire, is to
prevent any one Continental Power in Europe from attaining a position of
world importance. Therefore England wishes to maintain a definite
equilibrium of forces among the European States--for this equilibrium
seems a necessary condition of England's world-hegemony.

What France has always desired, and will continue to desire, is to
prevent Germany from becoming a homogeneous Power. Therefore France
wants to maintain a system of small German States whose forces would
balance one another and over which there should be no central
government. Then, by acquiring possession of the left bank of the Rhine,
she would have fulfilled the pre-requisite conditions for the
establishment and security of her hegemony in Europe.

The final aims of French diplomacy must be in perpetual opposition to
the final tendencies of British statesmanship.

Taking these considerations as a starting-point, anyone who investigates
the possibilities that exist for Germany to find allies must come to the
conclusion that there remains no other way of forming an alliance except
to approach England. The consequences of England's war policy were and
are disastrous for Germany. However, we cannot close our eyes to the
fact that, as things stand to-day, the necessary interests of England no
longer demand the destruction of Germany. On the contrary, British
diplomacy must tend more and more, from year to year, towards curbing
France's unbridled lust after hegemony. Now, a policy of alliances
cannot be pursued by bearing past grievances in mind, but it can be
rendered fruitful by taking account of past experiences. Experience
should have taught us that alliances formed for negative purposes suffer
from intrinsic weakness. The destinies of nations can be welded together
only under the prospect of a common success, of common gain and
conquest, in short, a common extension of power for both contracting
parties.

The ignorance of our people on questions of foreign politics is clearly
demonstrated by the reports in the daily Press which talk about
"friendship towards Germany" on the part of one or the other foreign
statesman, whereby this professed friendship is taken as a special
guarantee that such persons will champion a policy that will be
advantageous to our people. That kind of talk is absurd to an incredible
degree. It means speculating on the unparalleled simplicity of the
average German philistine when he comes to talking politics. There is
not any British, American, or Italian statesman who could ever be
described as 'pro-German'. Every Englishman must naturally be British
first of all. The same is true of every American. And no Italian
statesman would be prepared to adopt a policy that was not pro-Italian.
Therefore, anyone who expects to form alliances with foreign nations on
the basis of a pro-German feeling among the statesmen of other countries
is either an ass or a deceiver. The necessary condition for linking
together the destinies of nations is never mutual esteem or mutual
sympathy, but rather the prospect of advantages accruing to the
contracting parties. It is true that a British statesman will always
follow a pro-British and not a pro-German policy; but it is also true
that certain definite interests involved in this pro-British policy may
coincide on various grounds with German interests. Naturally that can be
so only to a certain degree and the situation may one day be completely
reversed. But the art of statesmanship is shown when at certain periods
there is question of reaching a certain end and when allies are found
who must take the same road in order to defend their own interests.

The practical application of these principles at the present time must
depend on the answer given to the following questions: What States are
not vitally interested in the fact that, by the complete abolition of a
German Central Europe, the economic and military power of France has
reached a position of absolute hegemony? Which are the States that, in
consideration of the conditions which are essential to their own
existence and in view of the tradition that has hitherto been followed
in conducting their foreign policy, envisage such a development as a
menace to their own future?

Finally, we must be quite clear on the following point: France is and
will remain the implacable enemy of Germany. It does not matter what
Governments have ruled or will rule in France, whether Bourbon or
Jacobin, Napoleonic or Bourgeois-Democratic, Clerical Republican or Red
Bolshevik, their foreign policy will always be directed towards
acquiring possession of the Rhine frontier and consolidating France's
position on this river by disuniting and dismembering Germany.

England did not want Germany to be a world Power. France desired that
there should be no Power called Germany. Therefore there was a very
essential difference. To-day we are not fighting for our position as a
World-Power but only for the existence of our country, for national
unity and the daily bread of our children. Taking this point of view
into consideration, only two States remain to us as possible allies in
Europe--England and Italy.

England is not pleased to see a France on whose military power there is
no check in Europe, so that one day she might undertake the support of a
policy which in some way or other might come into conflict with British
interests. Nor can England be pleased to see France in possession of
such enormous coal and iron mines in Western Europe as would make it
possible for her one day to play a role in world-commerce which might
threaten danger to British interests. Moreover, England can never be
pleased to see a France whose political position on the Continent, owing
to the dismemberment of the rest of Europe, seems so absolutely assured
that she is not only able to resume a French world-policy on great lines
but would even find herself compelled to do so. The bombs which were
once dropped by the Zeppelins might be multiplied by the thousand every
night. The military predominance of France is a weight that presses
heavily on the hearts of the World Empire over which Great Britain
rules.

Nor can Italy desire, nor will she desire, any further strengthening of
France's power in Europe. The future of Italy will be conditioned by the
development of events in the Mediterranean and by the political
situation in the area surrounding that sea. The reason that led Italy
into the War was not a desire to contribute towards the aggrandizement
of France but rather to deal her hated Adriatic rival a mortal blow. Any
further increase of France's power on the Continent would hamper the
development of Italy's future, and Italy does not deceive herself by
thinking that racial kindred between the nations will in any way
eliminate rivalries.

Serious and impartial consideration proves that it is these two States,
Great Britain and Italy, whose natural interests not only do not
contrast with the conditions essential to the existence of the German
nation but are identical with them, to a certain extent.

But when we consider the possibilities of alliances we must be careful
not to lose sight of three factors. The first factor concerns ourselves;
the other two concern the two States I have mentioned.

Is it at all possible to conclude an alliance with Germany as it is
to-day? Can a Power which would enter into an alliance for the purpose
of securing assistance in an effort to carry out its own OFFENSIVE
aims--can such a Power form an alliance with a State whose rulers have
for years long presented a spectacle of deplorable incompetence and
pacifist cowardice and where the majority of the people, blinded by
democratic and Marxist teachings, betray the interests of their own
people and country in a manner that cries to Heaven for vengeance? As
things stand to-day, can any Power hope to establish useful relations
and hope to fight together for the furtherance of their common interests
with this State which manifestly has neither the will nor the courage to
move a finger even in the defence of its bare existence? Take the case
of a Power for which an alliance must be much more than a pact to
guarantee a state of slow decomposition, such as happened with the old
and disastrous Triple Alliance. Can such a Power associate itself for
life or death with a State whose most characteristic signs of activity
consist of a rampant servility in external relations and a scandalous
repression of the national spirit at home? Can such a Power be
associated with a State in which there is nothing of greatness, because
its whole policy does not deserve it? Or can alliances be made with
Governments which are in the hands of men who are despised by their own
fellow-citizens and consequently are not respected abroad?

No. A self-respecting Power which expects something more from alliances
than commissions for greedy Parliamentarians will not and cannot enter
into an alliance with our present-day Germany. Our present inability to
form alliances furnishes the principle and most solid basis for the
combined action of the enemies who are robbing us. Because Germany does
not defend itself in any other way except by the flamboyant protests of
our parliamentarian elect, there is no reason why the rest of the world
should take up the fight in our defence. And God does not follow the
principle of granting freedom to a nation of cowards, despite all the
implications of our 'patriotic' associations. Therefore, for those
States which have not a direct interest in our annihilation no other
course remains open except to participate in France's campaign of
plunder, at least to make it impossible for the strength of France to be
exclusively aggrandized thereby.

In the second place, we must not forget that among the nations which
were formerly our enemies mass-propaganda has turned the opinions and
feelings of large sections of the population in a fixed direction. When
for years long a foreign nation has been presented to the public as a
horde of 'Huns', 'Robbers', 'Vandals', etc., they cannot suddenly be
presented as something different, and the enemy of yesterday cannot be
recommended as the ally of tomorrow.

But the third factor deserves greater attention, since it is of
essential importance for establishing future alliances in Europe.

From the political point of view it is not in the interests of Great
Britain that Germany should be ruined even still more, but such a
proceeding would be very much in the interests of the international
money-markets manipulated by the Jew. The cleavage between the official,
or rather traditional, British statesmanship and the controlling
influence of the Jew on the money-markets is nowhere so clearly
manifested as in the various attitudes taken towards problems of British
foreign policy. Contrary to the interests and welfare of the British
State, Jewish finance demands not only the absolute economic destruction
of Germany but its complete political enslavement. The
internationalization of our German economic system, that is to say, the
transference of our productive forces to the control of Jewish
international finance, can be completely carried out only in a State
that has been politically Bolshevized. But the Marxist fighting forces,
commanded by international and Jewish stock-exchange capital, cannot
finally smash the national resistance in Germany without friendly help
from outside. For this purpose French armies would first have to invade
and overcome the territory of the German REICH until a state of
international chaos would set in, and then the country would have to
succumb to Bolshevik storm troops in the service of Jewish international
finance.

Hence it is that at the present time the Jew is the great agitator for
the complete destruction of Germany. Whenever we read of attacks against
Germany taking place in any part of the world the Jew is always the
instigator. In peace-time, as well as during the War, the Jewish-Marxist
stock-exchange Press systematically stirred up hatred against Germany,
until one State after another abandoned its neutrality and placed itself
at the service of the world coalition, even against the real interests
of its own people.

The Jewish way of reasoning thus becomes quite clear. The Bolshevization
of Germany, that is to say, the extermination of the patriotic and
national German intellectuals, thus making it possible to force German
Labour to bear the yoke of international Jewish finance--that is only
the overture to the movement for expanding Jewish power on a wider scale
and finally subjugating the world to its rule. As has so often happened
in history, Germany is the chief pivot of this formidable struggle. If
our people and our State should fall victims to these oppressors of the
nations, lusting after blood and money, the whole earth would become the
prey of that hydra. Should Germany be freed from its grip, a great
menace for the nations of the world would thereby be eliminated.

It is certain that Jewry uses all its subterranean activities not only
for the purpose of keeping alive old national enmities against Germany
but even to spread them farther and render them more acute wherever
possible. It is no less certain that these activities are only very
partially in keeping with the true interests of the nations among whose
people the poison is spread. As a general principle, Jewry carries on
its campaign in the various countries by the use of arguments that are
best calculated to appeal to the mentality of the respective nations and
are most likely to produce the desired results; for Jewry knows what the
public feeling is in each country. Our national stock has been so much
adulterated by the mixture of alien elements that, in its fight for
power, Jewry can make use of the more or less 'cosmopolitan' circles
which exist among us, inspired by the pacifist and international
ideologies. In France they exploit the well-known and accurately
estimated chauvinistic spirit. In England they exploit the commercial
and world-political outlook. In short, they always work upon the
essential characteristics that belong to the mentality of each nation.
When they have in this way achieved a decisive influence in the
political and economic spheres they can drop the limitations which their
former tactics necessitated, now disclosing their real intentions and
the ends for which they are fighting. Their work of destruction now goes
ahead more quickly, reducing one State after another to a mass of ruins
on which they will erect the everlasting and sovereign Jewish Empire.

In England, and in Italy, the contrast between the better kind of solid
statesmanship and the policy of the Jewish stock-exchange often becomes
strikingly evident.

Only in France there exists to-day more than ever before a profound
accord between the views of the stock-exchange, controlled by the Jews,
and the chauvinistic policy pursued by French statesmen. This identity
of views constitutes an immense, danger for Germany. And it is just for
this reason that France is and will remain by far the most dangerous
enemy. The French people, who are becoming more and more obsessed by
negroid ideas, represent a threatening menace to the existence of the
white race in Europe, because they are bound up with the Jewish campaign
for world-domination. For the contamination caused by the influx of
negroid blood on the Rhine, in the very heart of Europe, is in accord
with the sadist and perverse lust for vengeance on the part of the
hereditary enemy of our people, just as it suits the purpose of the cool
calculating Jew who would use this means of introducing a process of
bastardization in the very centre of the European Continent and, by
infecting the white race with the blood of an inferior stock, would
destroy the foundations of its independent existence.

France's activities in Europe to-day, spurred on by the French lust for
vengeance and systematically directed by the Jew, are a criminal attack
against the life of the white race and will one day arouse against the
French people a spirit of vengeance among a generation which will have
recognized the original sin of mankind in this racial pollution.

As far as concerns Germany, the danger which France represents involves
the duty of relegating all sentiment to a subordinate place and
extending the hand to those who are threatened with the same menace and
who are not willing to suffer or tolerate France's lust for hegemony.

For a long time yet to come there will be only two Powers in Europe with
which it may be possible for Germany to conclude an alliance. These
Powers are Great Britain and Italy.

If we take the trouble to cast a glance backwards on the way in which
German foreign policy has been conducted since the Revolution we must,
in view of the constant and incomprehensible acts of submission on the
part. of our governments, either lose heart or become fired with rage
and take up the cudgels against such a regime. Their way of acting
cannot be attributed to a want of understanding, because what seemed to
every thinking man to be inconceivable was accomplished by the leaders
of the November parties with their Cyclopean intellects. They bowed to
France and begged her favour. Yes, during all these recent years, with
the touching simplicity of incorrigible visionaries, they went on their
knees to France again and again. They perpetuaily wagged their tails
before the GRANDE NATION. And in each trick-o'-the-loop which the French
hangmen performed with his rope they recognized a visible change of
feeling. Our real political wire-pullers never shared in this absurd
credulity. The idea of establishing a friendship with France was for
them only a means of thwarting every attempt on Germany's part to adopt
a practical policy of alliances. They had no illusions about French aims
or those of the men behind the scenes in France. What induced them to
take up such an attitude and to act as if they honestly believed that
the fate of Germany could possibly be changed in this way was the cool
calculation that if this did not happen our people might take the reins
into their own hands and choose another road.

Of course it is difficult for us to propose England as our possible ally
in the future. Our Jewish Press has always been adept in concentrating
hatred against England particularly. And many of our good German
simpletons perch on these branches which the Jews have limed to capture
them. They babble about a restoration of German sea power and protest
against the robbery of our colonies. Thus they furnish material which
the contriving Jew transmits to his clansmen in England, so that it can
be used there for purposes of practical propaganda. For our
simple-minded bourgeoisie who indulge in politics can take in only
little by little the idea that to-day we have not to fight for
'sea-power' and such things. Even before the War it was absurd to direct
the national energies of Germany towards this end without first having
secured our position in Europe. Such a hope to-day reaches that peak of
absurdity which may be called criminal in the domain of politics.

Often one becomes really desperate on seeing how the Jewish wire-pullers
succeeded in concentrating the attention of the people on things which
are only of secondary importance to-day, They incited the people to
demonstrations and protests while at the same time France was tearing
our nation asunder bit by bit and systematically removing the very
foundations of our national independence.

In this connection I have to think of the Wooden Horse in the riding of
which the Jew showed extraordinary skill during these years. I mean
South Tyrol.

Yes, South Tyrol. The reason why I take up this question here is just
because I want to call to account that shameful CANAILLE who relied on
the ignorance and short memories of large sections of our people and
stimulated a national indignation which is as foreign to the real
character of our parliamentary impostors as the idea of respect for
private property is to a magpie.

I should like to state here that I was one of those who, at the time
when the fate of South Tyrol was being decided--that is to say, from
August 1914 to November 1918--took my place where that country also
could have been effectively defended, namely, in the Army. I did my
share in the fighting during those years, not merely to save South Tyrol
from being lost but also to save every other German province for the
Fatherland.

The parliamentary sharpers did not take part in that combat. The whole
CANAILLE played party politics. On the other hand, we carried on the
fight in the belief that a victorious issue of the War would enable the
German nation to keep South Tyrol also; but the loud-mouthed traitor
carried on a seditious agitation against such a victorious issue, until
the fighting Siegfried succumbed to the dagger plunged in his back. It
was only natural that the inflammatory and hypocritical speeches of the
elegantly dressed parliamentarians on the Vienna RATHAUS PLATZ or in
front of the FELDHERRNHALLE in Munich could not save South Tyrol for
Germany. That could be done only by the fighting battalions at the
Front. Those who broke up that fighting front betrayed South Tyrol, as
well as the other districts of Germany.

Anyone who thinks that the South Tyrol question can be solved to-day by
protests and manifestations and processions organized by various
associations is either a humbug or merely a German philistine.

In this regard it must be quite clearly understood that we cannot get
back the territories we have lost if we depend on solemn imprecations
before the throne of the Almighty God or on pious hopes in a League of
Nations, but only by the force of arms.

Therefore the only remaining question is: Who is ready to take up arms
for the restoration of the lost territories?

As far as concerns myself personally, I can state with a good conscience
that I would have courage enough to take part in a campaign for the
reconquest of South Tyrol, at the head of parliamentarian storm
battalions consisting of parliamentarian gasconaders and all the party
leaders, also the various Councillors of State. Only the Devil knows
whether I might have the luck of seeing a few shells suddenly burst over
this 'burning' demonstration of protest. I think that if a fox were to
break into a poultry yard his presence would not provoke such a
helter-skelter and rush to cover as we should witness in the band of
'protesters'.

The vilest part of it all is that these talkers themselves do not
believe that anything can be achieved in this way. Each one of them
knows very well how harmless and ineffective their whole pretence is.
They do it only because it is easier now to babble about the restoration
of South Tyrol than to fight for its preservation in days gone by.

Each one plays the part that he is best capable of playing in life. In
those days we offered our blood. To-day these people are engaged in
whetting their tusks.

It is particularly interesting to note to-day how legitimist circles in
Vienna preen themselves on their work for the restoration of South
Tyrol. Seven years ago their august and illustrious Dynasty helped, by
an act of perjury and treason, to make it possible for the victorious
world-coalition to take away South Tyrol. At that time these circles
supported the perfidious policy adopted by their Dynasty and did not
trouble themselves in the least about the fate of South Tyrol or any
other province. Naturally it is easier to-day to take up the fight for
this territory, since the present struggle is waged with 'the weapons of
the mind'. Anyhow, it is easier to join in a 'meeting of protestation'
and talk yourself hoarse in giving vent to the noble indignation that
fills your breast, or stain your finger with the writing of a newspaper
article, than to blow up a bridge, for instance, during the occupation
of the Ruhr.

The reason why certain circles have made the question of South Tyrol the
pivot of German-Italian relations during the past few years is quite
evident. Jews and Habsburg legitimists are greatly interested in
preventing Germany from pursuing a policy of alliance which might lead
one day to the resurgence of a free German fatherland. It is not out of
love for South Tyrol that they play this role to-day--for their policy
would turn out detrimental rather than helpful to the interests of that
province--but through fear of an agreement being established between
Germany and Italy.

A tendency towards lying and calumny lies in the nature of these people,
and that explains how they can calmly and brazenly attempt to twist
things in such a way as to make it appear that we have 'betrayed' South
Tyrol.

There is one clear answer that must be given to these gentlemen. It is
this: Tyrol has been betrayed, in the first place, by every German who
was sound in limb and body and did not offer himself for service at the
Front during 1914-1918 to do his duty towards his country.

In the second place, Tyrol was betrayed by every man who, during those
years did not help to reinforce the national spirit and the national
powers of resistance, so as to enable the country to carry through the
War and keep up the fight to the very end.

In the third place, South Tyrol was betrayed by everyone who took part
in the November Revolution, either directly by his act or indirectly by
a cowardly toleration of it, and thus broke the sole weapon that could
have saved South Tyrol.

In the fourth place, South Tyrol was betrayed by those parties and their
adherents who put their signatures to the disgraceful treaties of
Versailles and St. Germain.

And so the matter stands, my brave gentlemen, who make your protests
only with words.

To-day I am guided by a calm and cool recognition of the fact that the
lost territories cannot be won back by the whetted tongues of
parliamentary spouters but only by the whetted sword; in other words,
through a fight where blood will have to be shed.

Now, I have no hesitations in saying that to-day, once the die has been
cast, it is not only impossible to win back South Tyrol through a war
but I should definitely take my stand against such a movement, because I
am convinced that it would not be possible to arouse the national
enthusiasm of the German people and maintain it in such a way as would
be necessary in order to carry through such a war to a successful issue.
On the contrary, I believe that if we have to shed German blood once
again it would be criminal to do so for the sake of liberating 200,000
Germans, when more than seven million neighbouring Germans are suffering
under foreign domination and a vital artery of the German nation has
become a playground for hordes of African niggers.

If the German nation is to put an end to a state of things which
threatens to wipe it off the map of Europe it must not fall into the
errors of the pre-War period and make the whole world its enemy. But it
must ascertain who is its most dangerous enemy so that it can
concentrate all its forces in a struggle to beat him. And if, in order
to carry through this struggle to victory, sacrifices should be made in
other quarters, future generations will not condemn us for that. They
will take account of the miseries and anxieties which led us to make
such a bitter decision, and in the light of that consideration they will
more clearly recognize the brilliancy of our success.

Again I must say here that we must always be guided by the fundamental
principle that, as a preliminary to winning back lost provinces, the
political independence and strength of the motherland must first be
restored.

The first task which has to be accomplished is to make that independence
possible and to secure it by a wise policy of alliances, which
presupposes an energetic management of our public affairs.

But it is just on this point that we, National Socialists, have to guard
against being dragged into the tow of our ranting bourgeois patriots who
take their cue from the Jew. It would be a disaster if, instead of
preparing for the coming struggle, our Movement also were to busy itself
with mere protests by word of mouth.

It was the fantastic idea of a Nibelungen alliance with the decomposed
body of the Habsburg State that brought about Germany's ruin. Fantastic
sentimentality in dealing with the possibilities of foreign policy
to-day would be the best means of preventing our revival for innumerable
years to come.

Here I must briefly answer the objections which may be raised in regard
to the three questions I have put.

1. Is it possible at all to form an alliance with the present Germany,
whose weakness is so visible to all eyes?

2. Can the ex-enemy nations change their attitude towards Germany?

3. In other nations is not the influence of Jewry stronger than the
recognition of their own interests, and does not this influence thwart
all their good intentions and render all their plans futile?

I think that I have already dealt adequately with one of the two aspects
of the first point. Of course nobody will enter into an alliance with
the present Germany. No Power in the world would link its fortunes with
a State whose government does not afford grounds for the slightest
confidence. As regards the attempt which has been made by many of our
compatriots to explain the conduct of the Government by referring to the
woeful state of public feeling and thus excuse such conduct, I must
strongly object to that way of looking at things.

The lack of character which our people have shown during the last six
years is deeply distressing. The indifference with which they have
treated the most urgent necessities of our nation might veritably lead
one to despair. Their cowardice is such that it often cries to heaven
for vengeance. But one must never forget that we are dealing with a
people who gave to the world, a few years previously, an admirable
example of the highest human qualities. From the first days of August
1914 to the end of the tremendous struggle between the nations, no
people in the world gave a better proof of manly courage, tenacity and
patient endurance, than this people gave who are so cast down and
dispirited to-day. Nobody will dare to assert that the lack of character
among our people to-day is typical of them. What we have to endure
to-day, among us and around us, is due only to the influence of the sad
and distressing effects that followed the high treason committed on
November 9th, 1918. More than ever before the word of the poet is true:
that evil can only give rise to evil. But even in this epoch those
qualities among our people which are fundamentally sound are not
entirely lost. They slumber in the depths of the national conscience,
and sometimes in the clouded firmament we see certain qualities like
shining lights which Germany will one day remember as the first symptoms
of a revival. We often see young Germans assembling and forming
determined resolutions, as they did in 1914, freely and willingly to
offer themselves as a sacrifice on the altar of their beloved
Fatherland. Millions of men have resumed work, whole-heartedly and
zealously, as if no revolution had ever affected them. The smith is at
his anvil once again. And the farmer drives his plough. The scientist is
in his laboratory. And everybody is once again attending to his duty
with the same zeal and devotion as formerly.

The oppression which we suffer from at the hands of our enemies is no
longer taken, as it formerly was, as a matter for laughter; but it is
resented with bitterness and anger. There can be no doubt that a great
change of attitude has taken place.

This evolution has not yet taken the shape of a conscious intention and
movement to restore the political power and independence of our nation;
but the blame for this must be attributed to those utterly incompetent
people who have no natural endowments to qualify them for statesmanship
and yet have been governing our nation since 1918 and leading it to
ruin.

Yes. If anybody accuses our people to-day he ought to be asked: What is
being done to help them? What are we to say of the poor support which
the people give to any measures introduced by the Government? Is it not
true that such a thing as a Government hardly exists at all? And must we
consider the poor support which it receives as a sign of a lack of
vitality in the nation itself; or is it not rather a proof of the
complete failure of the methods employed in the management of this
valuable trust? What have our Governments done to re-awaken in the
nation a proud spirit of self-assertion, up-standing manliness, and a
spirit of righteous defiance towards its enemies?

In 1919, when the Peace Treaty was imposed on the German nation, there
were grounds for hoping that this instrument of unrestricted oppression
would help to reinforce the outcry for the freedom of Germany. Peace
treaties which make demands that fall like a whip-lash on the people
turn out not infrequently to be the signal of a future revival.

To what purpose could the Treaty of Versailles have been exploited?

In the hands of a willing Government, how could this instrument of
unlimited blackmail and shameful humiliation have been applied for the
purpose of arousing national sentiment to its highest pitch? How could a
well-directed system of propaganda have utilized the sadist cruelty of
that treaty so as to change the indifference of the people to a feeling
of indignation and transform that indignation into a spirit of dauntless
resistance?

Each point of that Treaty could have been engraved on the minds and
hearts of the German people and burned into them until sixty million men
and women would find their souls aflame with a feeling of rage and
shame; and a torrent of fire would burst forth as from a furnace, and
one common will would be forged from it, like a sword of steel. Then the
people would join in the common cry: "To arms again!"

Yes. A treaty of that kind can be used for such a purpose. Its unbounded
oppression and its impudent demands were an excellent propaganda weapon
to arouse the sluggish spirit of the nation and restore its vitality.

Then, from the child's story-book to the last newspaper in the country,
and every theatre and cinema, every pillar where placards are posted and
every free space on the hoardings should be utilized in the service of
this one great mission, until the faint-hearted cry, "Lord, deliver us,"
which our patriotic associations send up to Heaven to-day would be
transformed into an ardent prayer: "Almighty God, bless our arms when
the hour comes. Be just, as Thou hast always been just. Judge now if we
deserve our freedom. Lord, bless our struggle."

All opportunities were neglected and nothing was done.

Who will be surprised now if our people are not such as they should be
or might be? The rest of the world looks upon us only as its valet, or
as a kindly dog that will lick its master's hand after he has been
whipped.

Of course the possibilities of forming alliances with other nations are
hampered by the indifference of our own people, but much more by our
Governments. They have been and are so corrupt that now, after eight
years of indescribable oppression, there exists only a faint desire for
liberty.

In order that our nation may undertake a policy of alliances, it must
restore its prestige among other nations, and it must have an
authoritative Government that is not a drudge in the service of foreign
States and the taskmaster of its own people, but rather the herald of
the national will.

If our people had a government which would look upon this as its
mission, six years would not have passed before a courageous foreign
policy on the part of the REICH would find a corresponding support among
the people, whose desire for freedom would be encouraged and intensified
thereby.

The third objection referred to the difficulty of changing the ex-enemy
nations into friendly allies. That objection may be answered as follows:

The general anti-German psychosis which has developed in other countries
through the war propaganda must of necessity continue to exist as long
as there is not a renaissance of the national conscience among the
German people, so that the German REICH may once again become a State
which is able to play its part on the chess-board of European politics
and with whom the others feel that they can play. Only when the
Government and the people feel absolutely certain of being able to
undertake a policy of alliances can one Power or another, whose
interests coincide with ours, think of instituting a system of
propaganda for the purpose of changing public opinion among its own
people. Naturally it will take several years of persevering and ably
directed work to reach such a result. Just because a long period is
needed in order to change the public opinion of a country, it is
necessary to reflect calmly before such an enterprise be undertaken.
This means that one must not enter upon this kind of work unless one is
absolutely convinced that it is worth the trouble and that it will bring
results which will be valuable in the future. One must not try to change
the opinions and feelings of a people by basing one's actions on the
vain cajolery of a more or less brilliant Foreign Minister, but only if
there be a tangible guarantee that the new orientation will be really
useful. Otherwise public opinion in the country dealt with may be just
thrown into a state of complete confusion. The most reliable guarantee
that can be given for the possibility of subsequently entering into an
alliance with a certain State cannot be found in the loquacious suavity
of some individual member of the Government, but in the manifest
stability of a definite and practical policy on the part of the
Government as a whole, and in the support which is given to that policy
by the public opinion of the country. The faith of the public in this
policy will be strengthened all the more if the Government organize one
active propaganda to explain its efforts and secure public support for
them, and if public opinion favourably responds to the Government's
policy.

Therefore a nation in such a position as ours will be looked upon as a
possible ally if public opinion supports the Government's policy and if
both are united in the same enthusiastic determination to carry through
the fight for national freedom. That condition of affairs must be firmly
established before any attempt can be made to change public opinion in
other countries which, for the sake of defending their most elementary
interests, are disposed to take the road shoulder-to-shoulder with a
companion who seems able to play his part in defending those interests.
In other words, this means that they will be ready to establish an
alliance.

For this purpose, however, one thing is necessary. Seeing that the task
of bringing about a radical change in the public opinion of a country
calls for hard work, and many do not at first understand what it means,
it would be both foolish and criminal to commit mistakes which could be
used as weapons in the hands of those who are opposed to such a change.

One must recognize the fact that it takes a long time for a people to
understand completely the inner purposes which a Government has in view,
because it is not possible to explain the ultimate aims of the
preparations that are being made to carry through a certain policy. In
such cases the Government has to count on the blind faith of the masses
or the intuitive instinct of the ruling caste that is more developed
intellectually. But since many people lack this insight, this political
acumen and faculty for seeing into the trend of affairs, and since
political considerations forbid a public explanation of why such and
such a course is being followed, a certain number of leaders in
intellectual circles will always oppose new tendencies which, because
they are not easily grasped, can be pointed to as mere experiments. And
that attitude arouses opposition among conservative circles regarding
the measures in question.

For this reason a strict duty devolves upon everybody not to allow any
weapon to fall into the hands of those who would interfere with the work
of bringing about a mutual understanding with other nations. This is
specially so in our case, where we have to deal with the pretentions and
fantastic talk of our patriotic associations and our small bourgeoisie
who talk politics in the cafes. That the cry for a new war fleet, the
restoration of our colonies, etc., has no chance of ever being carried
out in practice will not be denied by anyone who thinks over the matter
calmly and seriously. These harmless and sometimes half-crazy spouters
in the war of protests are serving the interests of our mortal enemy,
while the manner in which their vapourings are exploited for political
purposes in England cannot be considered as advantageous to Germany.

They squander their energies in futile demonstrations against the whole
world. These demonstrations are harmful to our interests and those who
indulge in them forget the fundamental principle which is a preliminary
condition of all success. What thou doest, do it thoroughly. Because we
keep on howling against five or ten States we fail to concentrate all
the forces of our national will and our physical strength for a blow at
the heart of our bitterest enemy. And in this way we sacrifice the
possibility of securing an alliance which would reinforce our strength
for that decisive conflict.

Here, too, there is a mission for National Socialism to fulfil. It must
teach our people not to fix their attention on the little things but
rather on the great things, not to exhaust their energies on secondary
objects, and not to forget that the object we shall have to fight for
one day is the bare existence of our people and that the sole enemy we
shall have to strike at is that Power which is robbing us of this
existence.

It may be that we shall have many a heavy burden to bear. But this is by
no means an excuse for refusing to listen to reason and raise
nonsensical outcries against the rest of the world, instead of
concentrating all our forces against the most deadly enemy.

Moreover, the German people will have no moral right to complain of the
manner in which the rest of the world acts towards them, as long as they
themselves have not called to account those criminals who sold and
betrayed their own country. We cannot hope to be taken very seriously if
we indulge in long-range abuse and protests against England and Italy
and then allow those scoundrels to circulate undisturbed in our own
country who were in the pay of the enemy war propaganda, took the
weapons out of our hands, broke the backbone of our resistance and
bartered away the REICH for thirty pieces of silver.

The enemy did only what was expected. And we ought to learn from the
stand he took and the way he acted.

Anyone who cannot rise to the level of this outlook must reflect that
otherwise there would remain nothing else than to renounce the idea of
adopting any policy of alliances for the future. For if we cannot form
an alliance with England because she has robbed us of our colonies, or
with Italy because she has taken possession of South Tyrol, or with
Poland or Czechoslovakia, then there remains no other possibility of an
alliance in Europe except with France which, inter alia, has robbed us
of Alsace and Lorraine.

There can scarcely be any doubt as to whether this last alternative
would be advantageous to the interests of the German people. But if it
be defended by somebody one is always doubtful whether that person be
merely a simpleton or an astute rogue.

As far as concerns the leaders in these activities, I think the latter
hypothesis is true.

A change in public feeling among those nations which have hitherto been
enemies and whose true interests will correspond in the future with ours
could be effected, as far as human calculation goes, if the internal
strength of our State and our manifest determination to secure our own
existence made it clear that we should be valuable allies. Moreover, it
is necessary that our incompetent way of doing things and our criminal
conduct in some matters should not furnish grounds which may be utilized
for purposes of propaganda by those who would oppose our projects of
establishing an alliance with one or other of our former enemies.

The answer to the third question is still more difficult: Is it
conceivable that they who represent the true interests of those nations
which may possibly form an alliance with us could put their views into
practice against the will of the Jew, who is the mortal enemy of
national and independent popular States?

For instance, could the motive-forces of Great Britain's traditional
statesmanship smash the disastrous influence of the Jew, or could they
not?

This question, as I have already said, is very difficult to answer. The
answer depends on so many factors that it is impossible to form a
conclusive judgment. Anyhow, one thing is certain: The power of the
Government in a given State and at a definite period may be so firmly
established in the public estimation and so absolutely at the service of
the country's interests that the forces of international Jewry could not
possibly organize a real and effective obstruction against measures
considered to be politically necessary.

The fight which Fascist Italy waged against Jewry's three principal
weapons, the profound reasons for which may not have been consciously
understood (though I do not believe this myself) furnishes the best
proof that the poison fangs of that Power which transcends all State
boundaries are being drawn, even though in an indirect way. The
prohibition of Freemasonry and secret societies, the suppression of the
supernational Press and the definite abolition of Marxism, together with
the steadily increasing consolidation of the Fascist concept of the
State--all this will enable the Italian Government, in the course of
some years, to advance more and more the interests of the Italian people
without paying any attention to the hissing of the Jewish world-hydra.

The English situation is not so favourable. In that country which has
'the freest democracy' the Jew dictates his will, almost unrestrained
but indirectly, through his influence on public opinion. And yet there
is a perpetual struggle in England between those who are entrusted with
the defence of State interests and the protagonists of Jewish
world-dictatorship.

After the War it became clear for the first time how sharp this contrast
is, when British statesmanship took one stand on the Japanese problem
and the Press took a different stand.

Just after the War had ceased the old mutual antipathy between America
and Japan began to reappear. Naturally the great European Powers could
not remain indifferent to this new war menace. In England, despite the
ties of kinship, there was a certain amount of jealousy and anxiety over
the growing importance of the United States in all spheres of
international economics and politics. What was formerly a colonial
territory, the daughter of a great mother, seemed about to become the
new mistress of the world. It is quite understandable that to-day
England should re-examine her old alliances and that British
statesmanship should look anxiously to the danger of a coming moment
when the cry would no longer be: "Britain rules the waves", but rather:
"The Seas belong to the United States".

The gigantic North American State, with the enormous resources of its
virgin soil, is much more invulnerable than the encircled German REICH.
Should a day come when the die which will finally decide the destinies
of the nations will have to be cast in that country, England would be
doomed if she stood alone. Therefore she eagerly reaches out her hand to
a member of the yellow race and enters an alliance which, from the
racial point of view is perhaps unpardonable; but from the political
viewpoint it represents the sole possibility of reinforcing Britain's
world position in face of the strenuous developments taking place on the
American continent.

Despite the fact that they fought side by side on the European
battlefields, the British Government did not decide to conclude an
alliance with the Asiatic partner, yet the whole Jewish Press opposed
the idea of a Japanese alliance.

How can we explain the fact that up to 1918 the Jewish Press championed
the policy of the British Government against the German REICH and then
suddenly began to take its own way and showed itself disloyal to the
Government?

It was not in the interests of Great Britain to have Germany
annihilated, but primarily a Jewish interest. And to-day the destruction
of Japan would serve British political interests less than it would
serve the far-reaching intentions of those who are leading the movement
that hopes to establish a Jewish world-empire. While England is using
all her endeavours to maintain her position in the world, the Jew is
organizing his aggressive plans for the conquest of it.

He already sees the present European States as pliant instruments in his
hands, whether indirectly through the power of so-called Western
Democracy or in the form of a direct domination through Russian
Bolshevism. But it is not only the old world that he holds in his snare;
for a like fate threatens the new world. Jews control the financial
forces of America on the stock exchange. Year after year the Jew
increases his hold on Labour in a nation of 120 million souls. But a
very small section still remains quite independent and is thus the cause
of chagrin to the Jew.

The Jews show consummate skill in manipulating public opinion and using
it as an instrument in fighting for their own future.

The great leaders of Jewry are confident that the day is near at hand
when the command given in the Old Testament will be carried out and the
Jews will devour the other nations of the earth.

Among this great mass of denationalized countries which have become
Jewish colonies one independent State could bring about the ruin of the
whole structure at the last moment. The reason for doing this would be
that Bolshevism as a world-system cannot continue to exist unless it
encompasses the whole earth. Should one State preserve its national
strength and its national greatness the empire of the Jewish satrapy,
like every other tyranny, would have to succumb to the force of the
national idea.

As a result of his millennial experience in accommodating himself to
surrounding circumstances, the Jew knows very well that he can undermine
the existence of European nations by a process of racial bastardization,
but that he could hardly do the same to a national Asiatic State like
Japan. To-day he can ape the ways of the German and the Englishman, the
American and the Frenchman, but he has no means of approach to the
yellow Asiatic. Therefore he seeks to destroy the Japanese national
State by using other national States as his instruments, so that he may
rid himself of a dangerous opponent before he takes over supreme control
of the last national State and transforms that control into a tyranny
for the oppression of the defenceless.

He does not want to see a national Japanese State in existence when he
founds his millennial empire of the future, and therefore he wants to
destroy it before establishing his own dictatorship.

And so he is busy to-day in stirring up antipathy towards Japan among
the other nations, as he stirred it up against Germany. Thus it may
happen that while British statesmanship is still endeavouring to ground
its policy in the alliance with Japan, the Jewish Press in Great Britain
may be at the same time leading a hostile movement against that ally and
preparing for a war of destruction by pretending that it is for the
triumph of democracy and at the same time raising the war-cry: Down with
Japanese militarism and imperialism.

Thus in England to-day the Jew opposes the policy of the State. And for
this reason the struggle against the Jewish world-danger will one day
begin also in that country.

And here again the National Socialist Movement has a tremendous task
before it.

It must open the eyes of our people in regard to foreign nations and it
must continually remind them of the real enemy who menaces the world
to-day. In place of preaching hatred against Aryans from whom we may be
separated on almost every other ground but with whom the bond of kindred
blood and the main features of a common civilization unite us, we must
devote ourselves to arousing general indignation against the maleficent
enemy of humanity and the real author of all our sufferings.

The National Socialist Movement must see to it that at least in our own
country the mortal enemy is recognized and that the fight against him
may be a beacon light pointing to a new and better period for other
nations as well as showing the way of salvation for Aryan humanity in
the struggle for its existence.

Finally, may reason be our guide and will-power our strength. And may
the sacred duty of directing our conduct as I have pointed out give us
perseverance and tenacity; and may our faith be our supreme protection.




CHAPTER XIV



GERMANY'S POLICY IN EASTERN EUROPE


There are two considerations which induce me to make a special analysis
of Germany's position in regard to Russia. These are:

(1) This may prove to be the most decisive point in determining
Germany's foreign policy.

(2) The problem which has to be solved in this connection is also a
touchstone to test the political capacity of the young National
Socialist Movement for clear thinking and acting along the right lines.

I must confess that the second consideration has often been a source of
great anxiety to me. The members of our movement are not recruited from
circles which are habitually indifferent to public affairs, but mostly
from among men who hold more or less extreme views. Such being the case,
it is only natural that their understanding of foreign politics should
suffer from the prejudice and inadequate knowledge of those circles to
which they were formerly attached by political and ideological ties. And
this is true not merely of the men who come to us from the Left. On the
contrary, however subversive may have been the kind of teaching they
formerly received in regard to these problems, in very many cases this
was at least partly counterbalanced by the residue of sound and natural
instincts which remained. In such cases it is only necessary to
substitute a better teaching in place of the earlier influences, in
order to transform the instinct of self-preservation and other sound
instincts into valuable assets.

On the other hand, it is much more difficult to impress definite
political ideas on the minds of men whose earlier political education
was not less nonsensical and illogical than that given to the partisans
of the Left. These men have sacrificed the last residue of their natural
instincts to the worship of some abstract and entirely objective theory.
It is particularly difficult to induce these representatives of our
so-called intellectual circles to take a realistic and logical view of
their own interests and the interests of their nation in its relations
with foreign countries. Their minds are overladen with a huge burden of
prejudices and absurd ideas and they have lost or renounced every
instinct of self-preservation. With those men also the National
Socialist Movement has to fight a hard battle. And the struggle is all
the harder because, though very often they are utterly incompetent, they
are so self-conceited that, without the slightest justification, they
look down with disdain on ordinary commonsense people. These arrogant
snobs who pretend to know better than other people, are wholly incapable
of calmly and coolly analysing a problem and weighing its pros and cons,
which are the necessary preliminaries of any decision or action in the
field of foreign politics.

It is just this circle which is beginning to-day to divert our foreign
policy into most disastrous directions and turn it away from the task of
promoting the real interests of the nation. Seeing that they do this in
order to serve their own fantastic ideologies, I feel myself obliged to
take the greatest pains in laying before my own colleagues a clear
exposition of the most important problem in our foreign policy, namely,
our position in relation to Russia. I shall deal with it, as thoroughly
as may be necessary to make it generally understood and as far as the
limits of this book permit. Let me begin by laying down the following
postulate:

When we speak of foreign politics we understand that domain of
government which has set before it the task of managing the affairs of a
nation in its relations with the rest of the world. Now the guiding
principles which must be followed in managing these affairs must be
based on the definite facts that are at hand. Moreover, as National
Socialists, we must lay down the following axiom regarding the manner in
which the foreign policy of a People's State should be conducted:

The foreign policy of a People's State must first of all bear in mind
the duty of securing the existence of the race which is incorporated in
this State. And this must be done by establishing a healthy and natural
proportion between the number and growth of the population on the one
hand and the extent and resources of the territory they inhabit, on the
other. That balance must be such that it accords with the vital
necessities of the people.

What I call a HEALTHY proportion is that in which the support of a
people is guaranteed by the resources of its own soil and sub-soil. Any
situation which falls short of this condition is none the less unhealthy
even though it may endure for centuries or even a thousand years. Sooner
or later, this lack of proportion must of necessity lead to the decline
or even annihilation of the people concerned.

Only a sufficiently large space on this earth can assure the independent
existence of a people.

The extent of the territorial expansion that may be necessary for the
settlement of the national population must not be estimated by present
exigencies nor even by the magnitude of its agricultural productivity in
relation to the number of the population. In the first volume of this
book, under the heading "Germany's Policy of Alliances before the War,"
I have already explained that the geometrical dimensions of a State are
of importance not only as the source of the nation's foodstuffs and raw
materials, but also from the political and military standpoints. Once a
people is assured of being able to maintain itself from the resources of
the national territory, it must think of how this national territory can
be defended. National security depends on the political strength of a
State, and this strength, in its turn, depends on the military
possibilities inherent in the geographical situation.

Thus the German nation could assure its own future only by being a World
Power. For nearly two thousand years the defence of our national
interests was a matter of world history, as can be seen from our more or
less successful activities in the field of foreign politics. We
ourselves have been witnesses to this, seeing that the gigantic struggle
that went on from 1914 to 1918 was only the struggle of the German
people for their existence on this earth, and it was carried out in such
a way that it has become known in history as the World War.

When Germany entered this struggle it was presumed that she was a World
Power. I say PRESUMED, because in reality she was no such thing. In
1914, if there had been a different proportion between the German
population and its territorial area, Germany would have been really a
World Power and, if we leave other factors out of count, the War would
have ended in our favour.

It is not my task nor my intention here to discuss what would have
happened if certain conditions had been fulfilled. But I feel it
absolutely incumbent on me to show the present conditions in their bare
and unadorned reality, insisting on the weakness inherent in them, so
that at least in the ranks of the National Socialist Movement they
should receive the necessary recognition.

Germany is not at all a World Power to-day. Even though our present
military weakness could be overcome, we still would have no claim to be
called a World Power. What importance on earth has a State in which the
proportion between the size of the population and the territorial area
is so miserable as in the present German REICH? At an epoch in which the
world is being gradually portioned out among States many of whom almost
embrace whole continents one cannot speak of a World Power in the case
of a State whose political motherland is confined to a territorial area
of barely five-hundred-thousand square kilometres.

Looked at purely from the territorial point of view, the area comprised
in the German REICH is insignificant in comparison with the other States
that are called World Powers. England must not be cited here as an
example to contradict this statement; for the English motherland is in
reality the great metropolis of the British World Empire, which owns
almost a fourth of the earth's surface. Next to this we must consider
the American Union as one of the foremost among the colossal States,
also Russia and China. These are enormous spaces, some of which are more
than ten times greater in territorial extent than the present German
REICH. France must also be ranked among these colossal States. Not only
because she is adding to the strength of her army in a constantly
increasing measure by recruiting coloured troops from the population of
her gigantic empire, but also because France is racially becoming more
and more negroid, so much so that now one can actually speak of the
creation of an African State on European soil. The contemporary colonial
policy of France cannot be compared with that of Germany in the past. If
France develops along the lines it has taken in our day, and should that
development continue for the next three hundred years, all traces of
French blood will finally be submerged in the formation of a
Euro-African Mulatto State. This would represent a formidable and
compact colonial territory stretching from the Rhine to the Congo,
inhabited by an inferior race which had developed through a slow and
steady process of bastardization.

That process distinguishes French colonial policy from the policy
followed by the old Germany.

The former German colonial policy was carried out by half-measures, as
was almost everything they did at that time. They did not gain an
expanse of territory for the settlement of German nationals nor did they
attempt to reinforce the power of the REICH through the enlistment of
black troops, which would have been a criminal undertaking. The Askari
in German East Africa represented a small and hesitant step along this
road; but in reality they served only for the defence of the colony
itself. The idea of importing black troops to a European theatre of
war--apart entirely from the practical impossibility of this in the
World War--was never entertained as a proposal to be carried out under
favourable circumstances; whereas, on the contrary, the French always
looked on such an idea as fundamental in their colonial activities.

Thus we find in the world to-day not only a number of States that are
much greater than the German in the mere numerical size of their
populations, but also possess a greater support for their political
power. The proportion between the territorial dimensions of the German
REICH and the numerical size of its population was never so unfavourable
in comparison with the other world States as at the beginning of our
history two thousand years ago and again to-day. At the former juncture
we were a young people and we stormed a world which was made up of great
States that were already in a decadent condition, of which the last
giant was Rome, to whose overthrow we contributed. To-day we find
ourselves in a world of great and powerful States, among which the
importance of our own REICH is constantly declining more and more.

We must always face this bitter truth with clear and calm minds. We must
study the area and population of the German REICH in relation to the
other States and compare them down through the centuries. Then we shall
find that, as I have said, Germany is not a World Power whether its
military strength be great or not.

There is no proportion between our position and that of the other States
throughout the world. And this lack of proportion is to be attributed to
the fact that our foreign policy never had a definite aim to attain, and
also to the fact that we lost every sound impulse and instinct for
self-preservation.

If the historians who are to write our national history at some future
date are to give the National Socialist Movement the credit of having
devoted itself to a sacred duty in the service of our people, this
movement will have to recognize the real truth of our situation in
regard to the rest of the world. However painful this recognition may
be, the movement must draw courage from it and a sense of practical
realities in fighting against the aimlessness and incompetence which has
hitherto been shown by our people in the conduct of their foreign
policy. Without respect for 'tradition,' and without any preconceived
notions, the movement must find the courage to organize our national
forces and set them on the path which will lead them away from that
territorial restriction which is the bane of our national life to-day,
and win new territory for them. Thus the movement will save the German
people from the danger of perishing or of being slaves in the service of
any other people.

Our movement must seek to abolish the present disastrous proportion
between our population and the area of our national territory,
considering national territory as the source of our maintenance or as a
basis of political power. And it ought to strive to abolish the contrast
between past history and the hopelessly powerless situation in which we
are to-day. In striving for this it must bear in mind the fact that we
are members of the highest species of humanity on this earth, that we
have a correspondingly high duty, and that we shall fulfil this duty
only if we inspire the German people with the racial idea, so that they
will occupy themselves not merely with the breeding of good dogs and
horses and cats, but also care for the purity of their own blood.

When I say that the foreign policy hitherto followed by Germany has been
without aim and ineffectual, the proof of my statement will be found in
the actual failures of this policy. Were our people intellectually
backward, or if they lacked courage, the final results of their efforts
could not have been worse than what we see to-day. What happened during
the last decades before the War does not permit of any illusions on this
point; because we must not measure the strength of a State taken by
itself, but in comparison with other States. Now, this comparison shows
that the other States increased their strength in such a measure that
not only did it balance that of Germany but turned out in the end to be
greater; so that, contrary to appearances, when compared with the other
States Germany declined more and more in power until there was a large
margin in her disfavour. Yes, even in the size of our population we
remained far behind, and kept on losing ground. Though it is true that
the courage of our people was not surpassed by that of any other in the
world and that they poured out more blood than any other nation in
defence of their existence, their failure was due only to the erroneous
way in which that courage was turned to practical purposes.

In this connection, if we examine the chain of political vicissitudes
through which our people have passed during more than a thousand years,
recalling the innumerable struggles and wars and scrutinizing it all in
the light of the results that are before our eyes to-day, we must
confess that from the ocean of blood only three phenomena have emerged
which we must consider as lasting fruits of political happenings
definitely determined by our foreign policy.

(1) The colonization of the Eastern Mark, which was mostly the work of
the Bajuvari.

(2) The conquest and settlement of the territory east of the Elbe.

(3) The organization of the Brandenburg-Prussian State, which was the
work of the Hohenzollerns and which became the model for the
crystallization of a new REICH.

An instructive lesson for the future.

These first two great successes of our foreign policy turned out to be
the most enduring. Without them our people would play no role in the
world to-day. These achievements were the first and unfortunately the
only successful attempts to establish a harmony between our increasing
population and the territory from which it drew its livelihood. And we
must look upon it as of really fatal import that our German historians
have never correctly appreciated these formidable facts which were so
full of importance for the following generations. In contradistinction
to this, they wrote panegyrics on many other things, fantastic heroism,
innumerable adventures and wars, without understanding that these latter
had no significance whatsoever for the main line of our national
development.

The third great success achieved by our political activity was the
establishment of the Prussian State and the development of a particular
State concept which grew out of this. To the same source we are to
attribute the organization of the instinct of national self-preservation
and self-defence in the German Army, an achievement which suited the
modern world. The transformation of the idea of self-defence on the part
of the individual into the duty of national defence is derived from the
Prussian State and the new statal concept which it introduced. It would
be impossible to over-estimate the importance of this historical
process. Disrupted by excessive individualism, the German nation became
disciplined under the organization of the Prussian Army and in this way
recovered at least some of the capacity to form a national community,
which in the case of other people had originally arisen through the
constructive urge of the herd instinct. Consequently the abolition of
compulsory national military service--which may have no meaning for
dozens of other nations--had fatal consequences for us. Ten generations
of Germans left without the corrective and educative effect of military
training and delivered over to the evil effects of those dissensions and
divisions the roots of which lie in their blood and display their force
also in a disunity of world-outlook--these ten generations would be
sufficient to allow our people to lose the last relics of an independent
existence on this earth.

The German spirit could then make its contribution to civilization only
through individuals living under the rule of foreign nations and the
origin of those individuals would remain unknown. They would remain as
the fertilizing manure of civilization, until the last residue of
Nordic-Aryan blood would become corrupted or drained out.

It is a remarkable fact that the real political successes achieved by
our people during their millennial struggles are better appreciated and
understood among our adversaries than among ourselves. Even still to-day
we grow enthusiastic about a heroism which robbed our people of millions
of their best racial stock and turned out completely fruitless in the
end.

The distinction between the real political successes which our people
achieved in the course of their long history and the futile ends for
which the blood of the nation has been shed is of supreme importance for
the determination of our policy now and in the future.

We, National Socialists, must never allow ourselves to re-echo the
hurrah patriotism of our contemporary bourgeois circles. It would be a
fatal danger for us to look on the immediate developments before the War
as constituting a precedent which we should be obliged to take into
account, even though only to the very smallest degree, in choosing our
own way. We can recognize no obligation devolving on us which may have
its historical roots in any part of the nineteenth century. In
contradistinction to the policy of those who represented that period, we
must take our stand on the principles already mentioned in regard to
foreign policy: namely, the necessity of bringing our territorial area
into just proportion with the number of our population. From the past we
can learn only one lesson. And this is that the aim which is to be
pursued in our political conduct must be twofold: namely (1) the
acquisition of territory as the objective of our foreign policy and (2)
the establishment of a new and uniform foundation as the objective of
our political activities at home, in accordance with our doctrine of
nationhood.

I shall briefly deal with the question of how far our territorial aims
are justified according to ethical and moral principles. This is all the
more necessary here because, in our so-called nationalist circles, there
are all kinds of plausible phrase-mongers who try to persuade the German
people that the great aim of their foreign policy ought to be to right
the wrongs of 1918, while at the same time they consider it incumbent on
them to assure the whole world of the brotherly spirit and sympathy of
the German people towards all other nations.

In regard to this point I should like to make the following statement:
To demand that the 1914 frontiers should be restored is a glaring
political absurdity that is fraught with such consequences as to make
the claim itself appear criminal. The confines of the REICH as they
existed in 1914 were thoroughly illogical; because they were not really
complete, in the sense of including all the members of the German
nation. Nor were they reasonable, in view of the geographical exigencies
of military defence. They were not the consequence of a political plan
which had been well considered and carried out. But they were temporary
frontiers established in virtue of a political struggle that had not
been brought to a finish; and indeed they were partly the chance result
of circumstances. One would have just as good a right, and in many cases
a better right, to choose some other outstanding year than 1914 in the
course of our history and demand that the objective of our foreign
policy should be the re-establishment of the conditions then existing.
The demands I have mentioned are quite characteristic of our bourgeois
compatriots, who in such matters take no political thought of the
future, They live only in the past and indeed only in the immediate
past; for their retrospect does not go back beyond their own times. The
law of inertia binds them to the present order of things, leading them
to oppose every attempt to change this. Their opposition, however, never
passes over into any kind of active defence. It is only mere passive
obstinacy. Therefore, we must regard it as quite natural that the
political horizon of such people should not reach beyond 1914. In
proclaiming that the aim of their political activities is to have the
frontiers of that time restored, they only help to close up the rifts
that are already becoming apparent in the league which our enemies have
formed against us. Only on these grounds can we explain the fact that
eight years after a world conflagration in which a number of Allied
belligerents had aspirations and aims that were partly in conflict with
one another, the coalition of the victors still remains more or less
solid.

Each of those States in its turn profited by the German collapse. In the
fear which they all felt before the proof of strength that we had given,
the Great Powers maintained a mutual silence about their individual
feelings of envy and enmity towards one another. They felt that the best
guarantee against a resurgence of our strength in the future would be to
break up and dismember our REICH as thoroughly as possible. A bad
conscience and fear of the strength of our people made up the durable
cement which has held the members of that league together, even up to
the present moment.

And our conduct does not tend to change this state of affairs. Inasmuch
as our bourgeoisie sets up the restoration of the 1914 frontiers as the
aim of Germany's political programme, each member of the enemy coalition
who otherwise might be inclined to withdraw from the combination sticks
to it, out of fear lest he might be attacked by us if he isolated
himself and in that case would not have the support of his allies. Each
individual State feels itself aimed at and threatened by this programme.
And the programme is absurd, for the following two reasons:

(1) Because there are no available means of extricating it from the
twilight atmosphere of political soirees and transforming it into
reality.

(2) Even if it could be really carried into effect the result would be
so miserable that, surely to God, it would not be worth while to risk
the blood of our people once again for such a purpose.

For there can be scarcely any doubt whatsoever that only through
bloodshed could we achieve the restoration of the 1914 frontiers. One
must have the simple mind of a child to believe that the revision of the
Versailles Treaty can be obtained by indirect means and by beseeching
the clemency of the victors; without taking into account the fact that
for this we should need somebody who had the character of a
Talleyrand, and there is no Talleyrand among us. Fifty percent of our
politicians consists of artful dodgers who have no character and are
quite hostile to the sympathies of our people, while the other fifty per
cent is made up of well-meaning, harmless, and complaisant incompetents.
Times have changed since the Congress of Vienna. It is no longer princes
or their courtesans who contend and bargain about State frontiers, but
the inexorable cosmopolitan Jew who is fighting for his own dominion
over the nations. The sword is the only means whereby a nation can
thrust that clutch from its throat. Only when national sentiment is
organized and concentrated into an effective force can it defy that
international menace which tends towards an enslavement of the nations.
But this road is and will always be marked with bloodshed.

If we are once convinced that the future of Germany calls for the
sacrifice, in one way or another, of all that we have and are, then we
must set aside considerations of political prudence and devote ourselves
wholly to the struggle for a future that will be worthy of our country.

For the future of the German nation the 1914 frontiers are of no
significance. They did not serve to protect us in the past, nor do they
offer any guarantee for our defence in the future. With these frontiers
the German people cannot maintain themselves as a compact unit, nor can
they be assured of their maintenance. From the military viewpoint these
frontiers are not advantageous or even such as not to cause anxiety. And
while we are bound to such frontiers it will not be possible for us to
improve our present position in relation to the other World Powers, or
rather in relation to the real World Powers. We shall not lessen the
discrepancy between our territory and that of Great Britain, nor shall
we reach the magnitude of the United States of America. Not only that,
but we cannot substantially lessen the importance of France in
international politics.

One thing alone is certain: The attempt to restore the frontiers of
1914, even if it turned out successful, would demand so much bloodshed
on the part of our people that no future sacrifice would be possible to
carry out effectively such measures as would be necessary to assure the
future existence of the nation. On the contrary, under the intoxication
of such a superficial success further aims would be renounced, all the
more so because the so-called 'national honour' would seem to be
revindicated and new ports would be opened, at least for a certain time,
to our commercial development.

Against all this we, National Socialists, must stick firmly to the aim
that we have set for our foreign policy; namely, that the German people
must be assured the territorial area which is necessary for it to exist
on this earth. And only for such action as is undertaken to secure those
ends can it be lawful in the eyes of God and our German posterity to
allow the blood of our people to be shed once again. Before God, because
we are sent into this world with the commission to struggle for our
daily bread, as creatures to whom nothing is donated and who must be
able to win and hold their position as lords of the earth only through
their own intelligence and courage. And this justification must be
established also before our German posterity, on the grounds that for
each one who has shed his blood the life of a thousand others will be
guaranteed to posterity. The territory on which one day our German
peasants will be able to bring forth and nourish their sturdy sons will
justify the blood of the sons of the peasants that has to be shed
to-day. And the statesmen who will have decreed this sacrifice may be
persecuted by their contemporaries, but posterity will absolve them from
all guilt for having demanded this offering from their people.

Here I must protest as sharply as possible against those nationalist
scribes who pretend that such territorial extension would be a
"violation of the sacred rights of man" and accordingly pour out their
literary effusions against it. One never knows what are the hidden
forces behind the activities of such persons. But it is certain that the
confusion which they provoke suits the game our enemies are playing
against our nation and is in accordance with their wishes. By taking
such an attitude these scribes contribute criminally to weaken from the
inside and to destroy the will of our people to promote their own vital
interests by the only effective means that can be used for that purpose.
For no nation on earth possesses a square yard of ground and soil by
decree of a higher Will and in virtue of a higher Right. The German
frontiers are the outcome of chance, and are only temporary frontiers
that have been established as the result of political struggles which
took place at various times. The same is also true of the frontiers
which demarcate the territories on which other nations live. And just as
only an imbecile could look on the physical geography of the globe as
fixed and unchangeable--for in reality it represents a definite stage in
a given evolutionary epoch which is due to the formidable forces of
Nature and may be altered to-morrow by more powerful forces of
destruction and change--so, too, in the lives of the nations the
confines which are necessary for their sustenance are subject to change.

State frontiers are established by human beings and may be changed by
human beings.

The fact that a nation has acquired an enormous territorial area is no
reason why it should hold that territory perpetually. At most, the
possession of such territory is a proof of the strength of the conqueror
and the weakness of those who submit to him. And in this strength alone
lives the right of possession. If the German people are imprisoned
within an impossible territorial area and for that reason are face to
face with a miserable future, this is not by the command of Destiny, and
the refusal to accept such a situation is by no means a violation of
Destiny's laws. For just as no Higher Power has promised more territory
to other nations than to the German, so it cannot be blamed for an
unjust distribution of the soil. The soil on which we now live was not a
gift bestowed by Heaven on our forefathers. But they had to conquer it
by risking their lives. So also in the future our people will not obtain
territory, and therewith the means of existence, as a favour from any
other people, but will have to win it by the power of a triumphant
sword.

To-day we are all convinced of the necessity of regulating our situation
in regard to France; but our success here will be ineffective in its
broad results if the general aims of our foreign policy will have to
stop at that. It can have significance for us only if it serves to cover
our flank in the struggle for that extension of territory which is
necessary for the existence of our people in Europe. For colonial
acquisitions will not solve that question. It can be solved only by the
winning of such territory for the settlement of our people as will
extend the area of the motherland and thereby will not only keep the new
settlers in the closest communion with the land of their origin, but
will guarantee to this territorial ensemble the advantages which arise
from the fact that in their expansion over greater territory the people
remain united as a political unit.

The National Movement must not be the advocate for other nations, but
the protagonist for its own nation. Otherwise it would be something
superfluous and, above all, it would have no right to clamour against
the action of the past; for then it would be repeating the action of the
past. The old German policy suffered from the mistake of having been
determined by dynastic considerations. The new German policy must not
follow the sentimentality of cosmopolitan patriotism. Above all, we must
not form a police guard for the famous 'poor small nations'; but we must
be the soldiers of the German nation.

We National Socialists have to go still further. The right to territory
may become a duty when a great nation seems destined to go under unless
its territory be extended. And that is particularly true when the nation
in question is not some little group of negro people but the Germanic
mother of all the life which has given cultural shape to the modern
world. Germany will either become a World Power or will not continue to
exist at all. But in order to become a World Power it needs that
territorial magnitude which gives it the necessary importance to-day and
assures the existence of its citizens.

Therefore we National Socialists have purposely drawn a line through the
line of conduct followed by pre-War Germany in foreign policy. We put an
end to the perpetual Germanic march towards the South and West of Europe
and turn our eyes towards the lands of the East. We finally put a stop
to the colonial and trade policy of pre-War times and pass over to the
territorial policy of the future.

But when we speak of new territory in Europe to-day we must principally
think of Russia and the border States subject to her.

Destiny itself seems to wish to point out the way for us here. In
delivering Russia over to Bolshevism, Fate robbed the Russian people of
that intellectual class which had once created the Russian State and
were the guarantee of its existence. For the Russian State was not
organized by the constructive political talent of the Slav element in
Russia, but was much more a marvellous exemplification of the capacity
for State-building possessed by the Germanic element in a race of
inferior worth. Thus were many powerful Empires created all over the
earth. More often than once inferior races with Germanic organizers and
rulers as their leaders became formidable States and continued to exist
as long as the racial nucleus remained which had originally created each
respective State. For centuries Russia owed the source of its livelihood
as a State to the Germanic nucleus of its governing class. But this
nucleus is now almost wholly broken up and abolished. The Jew has taken
its place. Just as it is impossible for the Russian to shake off the
Jewish yoke by exerting his own powers, so, too, it is impossible for
the Jew to keep this formidable State in existence for any long period
of time. He himself is by no means an organizing element, but rather a
ferment of decomposition. This colossal Empire in the East is ripe for
dissolution. And the end of the Jewish domination in Russia will also be
the end of Russia as a State. We are chosen by Destiny to be the
witnesses of a catastrophe which will afford the strongest confirmation
of the nationalist theory of race.

But it is our task, and it is the mission of the National Socialist
Movement, to develop in our people that political mentality which will
enable them to realize that the aim which they must set to themselves
for the fulfilment of their future must not be some wildly enthusiastic
adventure in the footsteps of Alexander the Great but industrious labour
with the German plough, for which the German sword will provide the
soil.

That the Jew should declare himself bitterly hostile to such a policy is
only quite natural. For the Jews know better than any others what the
adoption of this line of conduct must mean for their own future. That
fact alone ought to teach all genuine nationalists that this new
orientation is the right and just one. But, unfortunately, the opposite
is the case. Not only among the members of the German-National Party but
also in purely nationalist circles violent opposition is raised against
this Eastern policy. And in connection with that opposition, as in all
such cases, the authority of great names is appealed to. The spirit of
Bismarck is evoked in defence of a policy which is as stupid as it is
impossible, and is in the highest degree detrimental to the interests of
the German people. They say that Bismarck laid great importance on the
value of good relations with Russia. To a certain extent, that is true.
But they quite forget to add that he laid equal stress on the importance
of good relations with Italy, for example. Indeed, the same Herr von
Bismarck once concluded an alliance with Italy so that he might more
easily settle accounts with Austria. Why is not this policy now
advocated? They will reply that the Italy of to-day is not the Italy of
that time. Good. But then, honourable sirs, permit me to remind you that
the Russia of to-day is no longer the Russia of that time. Bismarck
never laid down a policy which would be permanently binding under all
circumstances and should be adhered to on principle. He was too much the
master of the moment to burden himself with that kind of obligation.
Therefore, the question ought not to be what Bismarck then did, but
rather what he would do to-day. And that question is very easy to
answer. His political sagacity would never allow him to ally himself
with a State that is doomed to disappear.

Moreover, Bismarck looked upon the colonial and trade policy of his time
with mixed feelings, because what he most desired was to assure the best
possibilities of consolidating and internally strengthening the state
system which he himself had created. That was the sole ground on which
he then welcomed the Russian defence in his rear, so as to give him a
free hand for his activities in the West. But what was advantageous then
to Germany would now be detrimental.

As early as 1920-21, when the young movement began slowly to appear on
the political horizon and movements for the liberation of the German
nation were formed here and there, the Party was approached from various
quarters in an attempt to bring it into definite connection with the
liberationist movements in other countries. This was in line with the
plans of the 'League of Oppressed Nations', which had been advertised in
many quarters and was composed principally of representatives of some of
the Balkan States and also of Egypt and India. These always impressed me
as charlatans who gave themselves big airs but had no real background at
all. Not a few Germans, however, especially in the nationalist camp,
allowed themselves to be taken in by these pompous Orientals, and in the
person of some wandering Indian or Egyptian student they believed at
once that they were face to face with a 'representative' of India or
Egypt. They did not realize that in most cases they were dealing with
persons who had no backing whatsoever, who were not authorized by
anybody to conclude any sort of agreement whatsoever; so that the
practical result of every negotiation with such individuals was negative
and the time spent in such dealings had to be reckoned as utterly lost.
I was always on my guard against these attempts. Not only that I had
something better to do than to waste weeks in such sterile
'discussions', but also because I believed that even if one were dealing
with genuine representatives that whole affair would be bound to turn
out futile, if not positively harmful.

In peace-time it was already lamentable enough that the policy of
alliances, because it had no active and aggressive aims in view, ended
in a defensive association with antiquated States that had been
pensioned off by the history of the world. The alliance with Austria, as
well as that with Turkey, was not much to be joyful about. While the
great military and industrial States of the earth had come together in a
league for purposes of active aggression, a few old and effete States
were collected, and with this antique bric-a`-brac an attempt was made to
face an active world coalition. Germany had to pay dearly for that
mistaken foreign policy and yet not dearly enough to prevent our
incorrigible visionaries from falling back into the same error again.
For the attempt to make possible the disarmament of the all-powerful
victorious States through a 'League of Oppressed Nations' is not only
ridiculous but disastrous. It is disastrous because in that way the
German people are again being diverted from real possibilities, which
they abandon for the sake of fruitless hopes and illusions. In reality
the German of to-day is like a drowning man that clutches at any straw
which may float beside him. And one finds people doing this who are
otherwise highly educated. Wherever some will-o'-the-wisp of a fantastic
hope appears these people set off immediately to chase it. Let this be a
League of Oppressed Nations, a League of Nations, or some other
fantastic invention, thousands of ingenuous souls will always be found
to believe in it.

I remember well the childish and incomprehensible hopes which arose
suddenly in nationalist circles in the years 1920-21 to the effect that
England was just nearing its downfall in India. A few Asiatic
mountebanks, who put themselves forward as "the champions of Indian
Freedom", then began to peregrinate throughout Europe and succeeded in
inspiring otherwise quite reasonable people with the fixed notion that
the British World Empire, which had its pivot in India, was just about
to collapse there. They never realized that their own wish was the
father of all these ideas. Nor did they stop to think how absurd their
wishes were. For inasmuch as they expected the end of the British Empire
and of England's power to follow the collapse of its dominion over
India, they themselves admitted that India was of the most outstanding
importance for England.

Now in all likelihood the deep mysteries of this most important problem
must have been known not only to the German-National prophets but also
to those who had the direction of British history in their hands. It is
right down puerile to suppose that in England itself the importance of
India for the British Empire was not adequately appreciated. And it is a
proof of having learned nothing from the world war and of thoroughly
misunderstanding or knowing nothing about Anglo-Saxon determination,
when they imagine that England could lose India without first having put
forth the last ounce of her strength in the struggle to hold it.
Moreover, it shows how complete is the ignorance prevailing in Germany
as to the manner in which the spirit of England permeates and
administers her Empire. England will never lose India unless she admits
racial disruption in the machinery of her administration (which at
present is entirely out of the question in India) or unless she is
overcome by the sword of some powerful enemy. But Indian risings will
never bring this about. We Germans have had sufficient experience to
know how hard it is to coerce England. And, apart from all this, I as a
German would far rather see India under British domination than under
that of any other nation.

The hopes of an epic rising in Egypt were just as chimerical. The 'Holy
War' may bring the pleasing illusion to our German nincompoops that
others are now ready to shed their blood for them. Indeed, this cowardly
speculation is almost always the father of such hopes. But in reality
the illusion would soon be brought to an end under the fusillade from a
few companies of British machine-guns and a hail of British bombs.

A coalition of cripples cannot attack a powerful State which is
determined, if necessary, to shed the last drop of its blood to maintain
its existence. To me, as a nationalist who appreciates the worth of the
racial basis of humanity, I must recognize the racial inferiority of the
so-called 'Oppressed Nations', and that is enough to prevent me from
linking the destiny of my people with the destiny of those inferior
races.

To-day we must take up the same sort of attitude also towards Russia.
The Russia of to-day, deprived of its Germanic ruling class, is not a
possible ally in the struggle for German liberty, setting aside entirely
the inner designs of its new rulers. From the purely military viewpoint
a Russo-German coalition waging war against Western Europe, and probably
against the whole world on that account, would be catastrophic for us.
The struggle would have to be fought out, not on Russian but on German
territory, without Germany being able to receive from Russia the
slightest effective support. The means of power at the disposal of the
present German REICH are so miserable and so inadequate to the waging of
a foreign war that it would be impossible to defend our frontiers
against Western Europe, England included. And the industrial area of
Germany would have to be abandoned undefended to the concentrated attack
of our adversaries. It must be added that between Germany and Russia
there is the Polish State, completely in the hands of the French. In
case Germany and Russia together should wage war against Western Europe,
Russia would have to overthrow Poland before the first Russian soldier
could arrive on the German front. But it is not so much a question of
soldiers as of technical equipment. In this regard we should have our
situation in the world war repeated, but in a more terrible manner. At
that time German industry had to be drained to help our glorious allies,
and from the technical side Germany had to carry on the war almost
alone. In this new hypothetical war Russia, as a technical factor, would
count for nothing. We should have practically nothing to oppose to the
general motorization of the world, which in the next war will make its
appearance in an overwhelming and decisive form. In this important field
Germany has not only shamefully lagged behind, but with the little it
has it would have to reinforce Russia, which at the present moment does
not possess a single factory capable of producing a motor gun-wagon.
Under such conditions the presupposed coming struggle would assume the
character of sheer slaughter. The German youth would have to shed more
of its blood than it did even in the world war; for, as always, the
honour of fighting will fall on us alone, and the result would be an
inevitable catastrophe. But even admitting that a miracle were produced
and that this war did not end in the total annihilation of Germany, the
final result would be that the German nation would be bled white, and,
surrounded by great military States, its real situation would be in no
way ameliorated.

It is useless to object here that in case of an alliance with Russia we
should not think of an immediate war or that, anyhow, we should have
means of making thorough preparations for war. No. An alliance which is
not for the purpose of waging war has no meaning and no value. Even
though at the moment when an alliance is concluded the prospect of war
is a distant one, still the idea of the situation developing towards war
is the profound reason for entering into an alliance. It is out of the
question to think that the other Powers would be deceived as to the
purpose of such an alliance. A Russo-German coalition would remain
either a matter of so much paper--and in this case it would have no
meaning for us--or the letter of the treaty would be put into practice
visibly, and in that case the rest of the world would be warned. It
would be childish to think that in such circumstances England and France
would wait for ten years to give the Russo-German alliance time to
complete its technical preparations. No. The storm would break over
Germany immediately.

Therefore the fact of forming an alliance with Russia would be the
signal for a new war. And the result of that would be the end of
Germany.

To these considerations the following must be added:

(1) Those who are in power in Russia to-day have no idea of forming an
honourable alliance or of remaining true to it, if they did.

It must never be forgotten that the present rulers of Russia are
blood-stained criminals, that here we have the dregs of humanity which,
favoured by the circumstances of a tragic moment, overran a great State,
degraded and extirpated millions of educated people out of sheer
blood-lust, and that now for nearly ten years they have ruled with such
a savage tyranny as was never known before. It must not be forgotten
that these rulers belong to a people in whom the most bestial cruelty is
allied with a capacity for artful mendacity and believes itself to-day
more than ever called to impose its sanguinary despotism on the rest of
the world. It must not be forgotten that the international Jew, who is
to-day the absolute master of Russia, does not look upon Germany as an
ally but as a State condemned to the same doom as Russia. One does not
form an alliance with a partner whose only aim is the destruction of his
fellow-partner. Above all, one does not enter into alliances with people
for whom no treaty is sacred; because they do not move about this earth
as men of honour and sincerity but as the representatives of lies and
deception, thievery and plunder and robbery. The man who thinks that he
can bind himself by treaty with parasites is like the tree that believes
it can form a profitable bargain with the ivy that surrounds it.

(2) The menace to which Russia once succumbed is hanging steadily over
Germany. Only a bourgeois simpleton could imagine that Bolshevism can be
tamed. In his superficial way of thinking he does not suspect that here
we are dealing with a phenomenon that is due to an urge of the blood:
namely, the aspiration of the Jewish people to become the despots of the
world. That aspiration is quite as natural as the impulse of the
Anglo-Saxon to sit in the seats of rulership all over the earth. And as
the Anglo-Saxon chooses his own way of reaching those ends and fights
for them with his characteristic weapons, so also does the Jew. The Jew
wriggles his way in among the body of the nations and bores them hollow
from inside. The weapons with which he works are lies and calumny,
poisonous infection and disintegration, until he has ruined his hated
adversary. In Russian Bolshevism we ought to recognize the kind of
attempt which is being made by the Jew in the twentieth century to
secure dominion over the world. In other epochs he worked towards the
same goal but with different, though at bottom similar, means. The kind
of effort which the Jew puts forth springs from the deepest roots in the
nature of his being. A people does not of itself renounce the impulse to
increase its stock and power. Only external circumstances or senile
impotence can force them to renounce this urge. In the same way the Jew
will never spontaneously give up his march towards the goal of world
dictatorship or repress his external urge. He can be thrown back on his
road only by forces that are exterior to him, for his instinct towards
world domination will die out only with himself. The impotence of
nations and their extinction through senility can come only when their
blood has remained no longer pure. And the Jewish people preserve the
purity of their blood better than any other nation on earth. Therefore
the Jew follows his destined road until he is opposed by a force
superior to him. And then a desperate struggle takes place to send back
to Lucifer him who would assault the heavens.

To-day Germany is the next battlefield for Russian Bolshevism. All the
force of a fresh missionary idea is needed to raise up our nation once
more, to rescue it from the coils of the international serpent and stop
the process of corruption which is taking place in the internal
constitution of our blood; so that the forces of our nation, once
liberated, may be employed to preserve our nationality and prevent the
repetition of the recent catastrophe from taking place even in the most
distant future. If this be the goal we set to ourselves it would be
folly to ally ourselves with a country whose master is the mortal enemy
of our future. How can we release our people from this poisonous grip if
we accept the same grip ourselves? How can we teach the German worker
that Bolshevism is an infamous crime against humanity if we ally
ourselves with this infernal abortion and recognize its existence as
legitimate. With what right shall we condemn the members of the broad
masses whose sympathies lie with a certain WELTANSCHAUUNG if the rulers
of our State choose the representatives of that WELTANSCHAUUNG as their
allies? The struggle against the Jewish Bolshevization of the world
demands that we should declare our position towards Soviet Russia. We
cannot cast out the Devil through Beelzebub. If nationalist circles
to-day grow enthusiastic about the idea of an alliance with Bolshevism,
then let them look around only in Germany and recognize from what
quarter they are being supported. Do these nationalists believe that a
policy which is recommended and acclaimed by the Marxist international
Press can be beneficial for the German people? Since when has the Jew
acted as shield-bearer for the militant nationalist?

One special reproach which could be made against the old German REICH
with regard to its policy of alliances was that it spoiled its relations
towards all others by continually swinging now this way and now that way
and by its weakness in trying to preserve world peace at all costs. But
one reproach which cannot be made against it is that it did not continue
to maintain good relations with Russia.

I admit frankly that before the War I thought it would have been better
if Germany had abandoned her senseless colonial policy and her naval
policy and had joined England in an alliance against Russia, therewith
renouncing her weak world policy for a determined European policy, with
the idea of acquiring new territory on the Continent. I do not forget
the constant insolent threats which Pan-Slavist Russia made against
Germany. I do not forget the continual trial mobilizations, the sole
object of which was to irritate Germany. I cannot forget the tone of
public opinion in Russia which in pre-War days excelled itself in
hate-inspired outbursts against our nation and REICH. Nor can I forget
the big Russian Press which was always more favourable to France than to
us.

But, in spite of everything, there was still a second way possible
before the War. We might have won the support of Russia and turned
against England. Circumstances are entirely different to-day. If, before
the War, throwing all sentiment to the winds, we could have marched by
the side of Russia, that is no longer possible for us to-day. Since then
the hand of the world-clock has moved forward. The hour has struck and
struck loudly, when the destiny of our people must be decided one way or
another.

The present consolidation of the great States of the world is the last
warning signal for us to look to ourselves and bring our people back
from their land of visions to the land of hard truth and point the way
into the future, on which alone the old REICH can march triumphantly
once again.

If, in view of this great and most important task placed before it, the
National Socialist Movement sets aside all illusions and takes reason as
its sole effective guide the catastrophe of 1918 may turn out to be an
infinite blessing for the future of our nation. From the lesson of that
collapse it may formulate an entirely new orientation for the conduct of
its foreign policy. Internally reinforced through its new
WELTANSCHAUUNG, the German nation may reach a final stabilization of
its policy towards the outside world. It may end by gaining what England
has, what even Russia had, and what France again and again utilized as
the ultimate grounds on which she was able to base correct decisions for
her own interests: namely, A Political Testament. Political Testament of
the German Nation ought to lay down the following rules, which will be
always valid for its conduct towards the outside world:

Never permit two Continental Powers to arise in Europe. Should any
attempt be made to organize a second military Power on the German
frontier by the creation of a State which may become a Military Power,
with the prospect of an aggression against Germany in view, such an
event confers on Germany not only the right but the duty to prevent by
every means, including military means, the creation of such a State and
to crush it if created. See to it that the strength of our nation does
not rest on colonial foundations but on those of our own native
territory in Europe. Never consider the REICH secure unless, for
centuries to come, it is in a position to give every descendant of our
race a piece of ground and soil that he can call his own. Never forget
that the most sacred of all rights in this world is man's right to the
earth which he wishes to cultivate for himself and that the holiest of
all sacrifices is that of the blood poured out for it.

I should not like to close this chapter without referring once again to
the one sole possibility of alliances that exists for us in Europe at
the present moment. In speaking of the German alliance problem in the
present chapter I mentioned England and Italy as the only countries with
which it would be worth while for us to strive to form a close alliance
and that this alliance would be advantageous. I should like here to
underline again the military importance of such an alliance.

The military consequences of forming this alliance would be the direct
opposite of the consequences of an alliance with Russia. Most important
of all is the fact that a RAPPROCHEMENT with England and Italy would in
no way involve a danger of war. The only Power that could oppose such an
arrangement would be France; and France would not be in a position to
make war. But the alliance should allow to Germany the possibility of
making those preparations in all tranquillity which, within the
framework of such a coalition, might in one way or another be requisite
in view of a regulation of accounts with France. For the full
significance of such an alliance lies in the fact that on its conclusion
Germany would no longer be subject to the threat of a sudden invasion.
The coalition against her would disappear automatically; that is to say,
the Entente which brought such disaster to us. Thus France, the mortal
enemy of our people, would be isolated. And even though at first this
success would have only a moral effect, it would be sufficient to give
Germany such liberty of action as we cannot now imagine. For the new
Anglo-German-Italian alliance would hold the political initiative and no
longer France.

A further success would be that at one stroke Germany would be delivered
from her unfavourable strategical situation. On the one side her flank
would be strongly protected; and, on the other, the assurance of being
able to import her foodstuffs and raw materials would be a beneficial
result of this new alignment of States. But almost of greater importance
would be the fact that this new League would include States that possess
technical qualities which mutually supplement each other. For the first
time Germany would have allies who would not be as vampires on her
economic body but would contribute their part to complete our technical
equipment. And we must not forget a final fact: namely, that in this
case we should not have allies resembling Turkey and Russia to-day. The
greatest World Power on this earth and a young national State would
supply far other elements for a struggle in Europe than the putrescent
carcasses of the States with which Germany was allied in the last war.

As I have already said, great difficulties would naturally be made to
hinder the conclusion of such an alliance. But was not the formation of
the Entente somewhat more difficult? Where King Edward VII succeeded
partly against interests that were of their nature opposed to his work
we must and will succeed, if the recognition of the necessity of such a
development so inspires us that we shall be able to act with skill and
conquer our own feelings in carrying the policy through. This will be
possible when, incited to action by the miseries of our situation, we
shall adopt a definite purpose and follow it out systematically instead
of the defective foreign policy of the last decades, which never had a
fixed purpose in view.

The future goal of our foreign policy ought not to involve an
orientation to the East or the West, but it ought to be an Eastern
policy which will have in view the acquisition of such territory as is
necessary for our German people. To carry out this policy we need that
force which the mortal enemy of our nation, France, now deprives us of
by holding us in her grip and pitilessly robbing us of our strength.
Therefore we must stop at no sacrifice in our effort to destroy the
French striving towards hegemony over Europe. As our natural ally to-day
we have every Power on the Continent that feels France's lust for
hegemony in Europe unbearable. No attempt to approach those Powers ought
to appear too difficult for us, and no sacrifice should be considered
too heavy, if the final outcome would be to make it possible for us to
overthrow our bitterest enemy. The minor wounds will be cured by the
beneficent influence of time, once the ground wounds have been
cauterized and closed.

Naturally the internal enemies of our people will howl with rage. But
this will not succeed in forcing us as National Socialists to cease our
preaching in favour of that which our most profound conviction tells us
to be necessary. We must oppose the current of public opinion which will
be driven mad by Jewish cunning in exploiting our German
thoughtlessness. The waves of this public opinion often rage and roar
against us; but the man who swims with the current attracts less
attention than he who buffets it. To-day we are but a rock in the river.
In a few years Fate may raise us up as a dam against which the general
current will be broken, only to flow forward in a new bed. Therefore it
is necessary that in the eyes of the rest of the world our movement
should be recognized as representing a definite and determined political
programme. We ought to bear on our visors the distinguishing sign of
that task which Heaven expects us to fulfil.

When we ourselves are fully aware of the ineluctable necessity which
determines our external policy this knowledge will fill us with the grit
which we need in order to stand up with equanimity under the bombardment
launched against us by the enemy Press and to hold firm when some
insinuating voice whispers that we ought to give ground here and there
in order not to have all against us and that we might sometimes howl
with the wolves.




CHAPTER XV



THE RIGHT TO SELF-DEFENCE


After we had laid down our arms, in November 1918, a policy was adopted
which in all human probability was bound to lead gradually to our
complete subjugation. Analogous examples from history show that those
nations which lay down their arms without being absolutely forced to do
so subsequently prefer to submit to the greatest humiliations and
exactions rather than try to change their fate by resorting to arms
again.

That is intelligible on purely human grounds. A shrewd conqueror will
always enforce his exactions on the conquered only by stages, as far as
that is possible. Then he may expect that a people who have lost all
strength of character--which is always the case with every nation that
voluntarily submits to the threats of an opponent--will not find in any
of these acts of oppression, if one be enforced apart from the other,
sufficient grounds for taking up arms again. The more numerous the
extortions thus passively accepted so much the less will resistance
appear justified in the eyes of other people, if the vanquished nation
should end by revolting against the last act of oppression in a long
series. And that is specially so if the nation has already patiently and
silently accepted impositions which were much more exacting.

The fall of Carthage is a terrible example of the slow agony of a people
which ended in destruction and which was the fault of the people
themselves.

In his THREE ARTICLES OF FAITH Clausewitz expressed this idea admirably
and gave it a definite form when he said: "The stigma of shame incurred
by a cowardly submission can never be effaced. The drop of poison which
thus enters the blood of a nation will be transmitted to posterity. It
will undermine and paralyse the strength of later generations." But, on
the contrary, he added: "Even the loss of its liberty after a sanguinary
and honourable struggle assures the resurgence of the nation and is the
vital nucleus from which one day a new tree can draw firm roots."

Naturally a nation which has lost all sense of honour and all strength
of character will not feel the force of such a doctrine. But any nation
that takes it to heart will never fall very low. Only those who forget
it or do not wish to acknowledge it will collapse. Hence those
responsible for a cowardly submission cannot be expected suddenly to
take thought with themselves, for the purpose of changing their former
conduct and directing it in the way pointed out by human reason and
experience. On the contrary, they will repudiate such a doctrine, until
the people either become permanently habituated to the yoke of slavery
or the better elements of the nation push their way into the foreground
and forcibly take power away from the hands of an infamous and corrupt
regime. In the first case those who hold power will be pleased with the
state of affairs, because the conquerors often entrust them with the
task of supervising the slaves. And these utterly characterless beings
then exercise that power to the detriment of their own people, more
cruelly than the most cruel-hearted stranger that might be nominated by
the enemy himself.

The events which happened subsequent to 1918 in Germany prove how the
hope of securing the clemency of the victor by making a voluntary
submission had the most disastrous influence on the political views and
conduct of the broad masses. I say the broad masses explicitly, because
I cannot persuade myself that the things which were done or left undone
by the leaders of the people are to be attributed to a similar
disastrous illusion. Seeing that the direction of our historical destiny
after the war was now openly controlled by the Jews, it is impossible to
admit that a defective knowledge of the state of affairs was the sole
cause of our misfortunes. On the contrary, the conclusion that must be
drawn from the facts is that our people were intentionally driven to
ruin. If we examine it from this point of view we shall find that the
direction of the nation's foreign policy was not so foolish as it
appeared; for on scrutinizing the matter closely we see clearly that
this conduct was a procedure which had been calmly calculated, shrewdly
defined and logically carried out in the service of the Jewish idea and
the Jewish endeavour to secure the mastery of the world.

From 1806 to 1813 Prussia was in a state of collapse. But that period
sufficed to renew the vital energies of the nation and inspire it once
more with a resolute determination to fight. An equal period of time has
passed over our heads from 1918 until to-day, and no advantage has been
derived from it. On the contrary, the vital strength of our State has
been steadily sapped.

Seven years after November 1918 the Locarno Treaty was signed.

Thus the development which took place was what I have indicated above.
Once the shameful Armistice had been signed our people were unable to
pluck up sufficient courage and energy to call a halt suddenly to the
conduct of our adversary as the oppressive measures were being
constantly renewed. The enemy was too shrewd to put forward all his
demands at once. He confined his duress always to those exactions which,
in his opinion and that of our German Government, could be submitted to
for the moment: so that in this way they did not risk causing an
explosion of public feeling. But according as the single impositions
were increasingly subscribed to and tolerated it appeared less
justifiable to do now in the case of one sole imposition or act of
duress what had not been previously done in the case of so many others,
namely, to oppose it. That is the 'drop of poison' of which Clausewitz
speaks. Once this lack of character is manifested the resultant
condition becomes steadily aggravated and weighs like an evil
inheritance on all future decisions. It may become as a leaden weight
around the nation's neck, which cannot be shaken off but which forces it
to drag out its existence in slavery.

Thus, in Germany, edicts for disarmament and oppression and economic
plunder followed one after the other, making us politically helpless.
The result of all this was to create that mood which made so many look
upon the Dawes Plan as a blessing and the Locarno Treaty as a success.
From a higher point of view we may speak of one sole blessing in the
midst of so much misery. This blessing is that, though men may be
fooled, Heaven can't be bribed. For Heaven withheld its blessing. Since
that time Misery and Anxiety have been the constant companions of our
people, and Distress is the one Ally that has remained loyal to us. In
this case also Destiny has made no exceptions. It has given us our
deserts. Since we did not know how to value honour any more, it has
taught us to value the liberty to seek for bread. Now that the nation
has learned to cry for bread, it may one day learn to pray for freedom.

The collapse of our nation in the years following 1918 was bitter and
manifest. And yet that was the time chosen to persecute us in the most
malicious way our enemies could devise, so that what happened afterwards
could have been foretold by anybody then. The government to which our
people submitted was as hopelessly incompetent as it was conceited, and
this was especially shown in repudiating those who gave any warning that
disturbed or displeased. Then we saw--and to-day also--the greatest
parliamentary nincompoops, really common saddlers and glove-makers--not
merely by trade, for that would signify very little--suddenly raised to
the rank of statesmen and sermonizing to humble mortals from that
pedestal. It did not matter, and it still does not matter, that such a
'statesman', after having displayed his talents for six months or so as
a mere windbag, is shown up for what he is and becomes the object of
public raillery and sarcasm. It does not matter that he has given the
most evident proof of complete incompetency. No. That does not matter at
all. On the contrary, the less real service the parliamentary statesmen
of this Republic render the country, the more savagely they persecute
all who expect that parliamentary deputies should show some positive
results of their activities. And they persecute everybody who dares to
point to the failure of these activities and predict similar failures
for the future. If one finally succeeds in nailing down one of these
parliamentarians to hard facts, so that this political artist can no
longer deny the real failure of his whole action and its results, then
he will find thousands of grounds for excuse, but will in no way admit
that he himself is the chief cause of the evil.

In the winter of 1922-23, at the latest, it ought to have been generally
recognized that, even after the conclusion of peace, France was still
endeavouring with iron consistency to attain those ends which had been
originally envisaged as the final purpose of the War. For nobody could
think of believing that for four and a half years France continued to
pour out the not abundant supply of her national blood in the most
decisive struggle throughout all her history in order subsequently to
obtain compensation through reparations for the damages sustained. Even
Alsace and Lorraine, taken by themselves, would not account for the
energy with which the French conducted the War, if Alsace-Lorraine were
not already considered as a part of the really vast programme which
French foreign policy had envisaged for the future. The aim of that
programme was: Disintegration of Germany into a collection of small
states. It was for this that Chauvinist France waged war; and in doing
so she was in reality selling her people to be the serfs of the
international Jew.

French war aims would have been obtained through the World War if, as
was originally hoped in Paris, the struggle had been carried out on
German soil. Let us imagine the bloody battles of the World War not as
having taken place on the Somme, in Flanders, in Artois, in front of
Warsaw, Nizhni-Novogorod, Kowno, and Riga but in Germany, in the Ruhr or
on the Maine, on the Elbe, in front of Hanover, Leipzig, Nu"rnberg, etc.
If such happened, then we must admit that the destruction of Germany
might have been accomplished. It is very much open to question if our
young federal State could have borne the hard struggle for four and a
half years, as it was borne by a France that had been centralized for
centuries, with the whole national imagination focused on Paris. If this
titanic conflict between the nations developed outside the frontiers of
our fatherland, not only is all the merit due to the immortal service
rendered by our old army but it was also very fortunate for the future
of Germany. I am fully convinced that if things had taken a different
course there would no longer be a German REICH to-day but only 'German
States'. And that is the only reason why the blood which was shed by our
friends and brothers in the War was at least not shed in vain.

The course which events took was otherwise. In November 1918 Germany did
indeed collapse with lightning suddenness. But when the catastrophe took
place at home the armies under the Commander-in-Chief were still deep in
the enemy's country. At that time France's first preoccupation was not
the dismemberment of Germany but the problem of how to get the German
armies out of France and Belgium as quickly as possible. And so, in
order to put an end to the War, the first thing that had to be done by
the Paris Government was to disarm the German armies and push them back
into Germany if possible. Until this was done the French could not
devote their attention to carrying out their own particular and original
war aims. As far as concerned England, the War was really won when
Germany was destroyed as a colonial and commercial Power and was reduced
to the rank of a second-class State. It was not in England's interest to
wipe out the German State altogether. In fact, on many grounds it was
desirable for her to have a future rival against France in Europe.
Therefore French policy was forced to carry on by peaceful means the
work for which the War had opened the way; and Clemenceau's statement,
that for him Peace was merely a continuation of the War, thus acquired
an enhanced significance.

Persistently and on every opportunity that arose, the effort to
dislocate the framework of the REICH was to have been carried on. By
perpetually sending new notes that demanded disarmament, on the one
hand, and by the imposition of economic levies which, on the other hand,
could be carried out as the process of disarmament progressed, it was
hoped in Paris that the framework of the REICH would gradually fall to
pieces. The more the Germans lost their sense of national honour the
more could economic pressure and continued economic distress be
effective as factors of political destruction. Such a policy of
political oppression and economic exploitation, carried out for ten or
twenty years, must in the long run steadily ruin the most compact
national body and, under certain circumstances, dismember it. Then the
French war aims would have been definitely attained.

By the winter of 1922-23 the intentions of the French must already have
been known for a long time back. There remained only two possible ways
of confronting the situation. If the German national body showed itself
sufficiently tough-skinned, it might gradually blunt the will of the
French or it might do--once and for all--what was bound to become
inevitable one day: that is to say, under the provocation of some
particularly brutal act of oppression it could put the helm of the
German ship of state to roundabout and ram the enemy. That would
naturally involve a life-and-death-struggle. And the prospect of coming
through the struggle alive depended on whether France could be so far
isolated that in this second battle Germany would not have to fight
against the whole world but in defence of Germany against a France that
was persistently disturbing the peace of the world.

I insist on this point, and I am profoundly convinced of it, namely,
that this second alternative will one day be chosen and will have to be
chosen and carried out in one way or another. I shall never believe that
France will of herself alter her intentions towards us, because, in the
last analysis, they are only the expression of the French instinct for
self-preservation. Were I a Frenchman and were the greatness of France
so dear to me as that of Germany actually is, in the final reckoning I
could not and would not act otherwise than a Clemenceau. The French
nation, which is slowly dying out, not so much through depopulation as
through the progressive disappearance of the best elements of the race,
can continue to play an important role in the world only if Germany be
destroyed. French policy may make a thousand detours on the march
towards its fixed goal, but the destruction of Germany is the end which
it always has in view as the fulfilment of the most profound yearning
and ultimate intentions of the French. Now it is a mistake to believe
that if the will on one side should remain only PASSIVE and intent on
its own self-preservation it can hold out permanently against another
will which is not less forceful but is ACTIVE. As long as the eternal
conflict between France and Germany is waged only in the form of a
German defence against the French attack, that conflict can never be
decided; and from century to century Germany will lose one position
after another. If we study the changes that have taken place, from the
twelfth century up to our day, in the frontiers within which the German
language is spoken, we can hardly hope for a successful issue to result
from the acceptance and development of a line of conduct which has
hitherto been so detrimental for us.

Only when the Germans have taken all this fully into account will they
cease from allowing the national will-to-life to wear itself out in
merely passive defence, but they will rally together for a last decisive
contest with France. And in this contest the essential objective of the
German nation will be fought for. Only then will it be possible to put
an end to the eternal Franco-German conflict which has hitherto proved
so sterile. Of course it is here presumed that Germany sees in the
suppression of France nothing more than a means which will make it
possible for our people finally to expand in another quarter. To-day
there are eighty million Germans in Europe. And our foreign policy will
be recognized as rightly conducted only when, after barely a hundred
years, there will be 250 million Germans living on this Continent, not
packed together as the coolies in the factories of another Continent but
as tillers of the soil and workers whose labour will be a mutual
assurance for their existence.

In December 1922 the situation between Germany and France assumed a
particularly threatening aspect. France had new and vast oppressive
measures in view and needed sanctions for her conduct. Political
pressure had to precede the economic plunder, and the French believed
that only by making a violent attack against the central nervous system
of German life would they be able to make our 'recalcitrant' people bow
to their galling yoke. By the occupation of the Ruhr District, it was
hoped in France that not only would the moral backbone of Germany be
broken finally but that we should be reduced to such a grave economic
condition that we should be forced, for weal or woe, to subscribe to the
heaviest possible obligations.

It was a question of bending and breaking Germany. At first Germany bent
and subsequently broke in pieces completely.

Through the occupation of the Ruhr, Fate once more reached out its hand
to the German people and bade them arise. For what at first appeared as
a heavy stroke of misfortune was found, on closer examination, to
contain extremely encouraging possibilities of bringing Germany's
sufferings to an end.

As regards foreign politics, the action of France in occupying the Ruhr
really estranged England for the first time in quite a profound way.
Indeed it estranged not merely British diplomatic circles, which had
concluded the French alliance and had upheld it from motives of calm and
objective calculation, but it also estranged large sections of the
English nation. The English business world in particular scarcely
concealed the displeasure it felt at this incredible forward step in
strengthening the power of France on the Continent. From the military
standpoint alone France now assumed a position in Europe such as Germany
herself had not held previously. Moreover, France thus obtained control
over economic resources which practically gave her a monopoly that
consolidated her political and commercial strength against all
competition. The most important iron and coal mines of Europe were now
united in the hand of one nation which, in contrast to Germany, had
hitherto defended her vital interests in an active and resolute fashion
and whose military efficiency in the Great War was still fresh in the
memories of the whole world. The French occupation of the Ruhr coal
field deprived England of all the successes she had gained in the War.
And the victors were now Marshal Foch and the France he represented, no
longer the calm and painstaking British statesmen.

In Italy also the attitude towards France, which had not been very
favourable since the end of the War, now became positively hostile. The
great historic moment had come when the Allies of yesterday might become
the enemies of to-morrow. If things happened otherwise and if the Allies
did not suddenly come into conflict with one another, as in the Second
Balkan War, that was due to the fact that Germany had no Enver Pasha but
merely a Cuno as Chancellor of the REICH.

Nevertheless, the French invasion of the Ruhr opened up great
possibilities for the future not only in Germany's foreign politics but
also in her internal politics. A considerable section of our people who,
thanks to the persistent influence of a mendacious Press, had looked
upon France as the champion of progress and liberty, were suddenly cured
of this illusion. In 1914 the dream of international solidarity suddenly
vanished from the brain of our German working class. They were brought
back into the world of everlasting struggle, where one creature feeds on
the other and where the death of the weaker implies the life of the
stronger. The same thing happened in the spring of 1923.

When the French put their threats into effect and penetrated, at first
hesitatingly and cautiously, into the coal-basin of Lower Germany the
hour of destiny had struck for Germany. It was a great and decisive
moment. If at that moment our people had changed not only their frame of
mind but also their conduct the German Ruhr District could have been
made for France what Moscow turned out to be for Napoleon. Indeed, there
were only two possibilities: either to leave this move also to take its
course and do nothing or to turn to the German people in that region of
sweltering forges and flaming furnaces. An effort might have been made
to set their wills afire with determination to put an end to this
persistent disgrace and to face a momentary terror rather than submit to
a terror that was endless.

Cuno, who was then Chancellor of the REICH, can claim the immortal merit
of having discovered a third way; and our German bourgeois political
parties merit the still more glorious honour of having admired him and
collaborated with him.

Here I shall deal with the second way as briefly as possible.

By occupying the Ruhr France committed a glaring violation of the
Versailles Treaty. Her action brought her into conflict with several of
the guarantor Powers, especially with England and Italy. She could no
longer hope that those States would back her up in her egotistic act of
brigandage. She could count only on her own forces to reap anything like
a positive result from that adventure, for such it was at the start. For
a German National Government there was only one possible way left open.
And this was the way which honour prescribed. Certainly at the beginning
we could not have opposed France with an active armed resistance. But it
should have been clearly recognized that any negotiations which did not
have the argument of force to back them up would turn out futile and
ridiculous. If it were not possible to organize an active resistance,
then it was absurd to take up the standpoint: "We shall not enter into
any negotiations." But it was still more absurd finally to enter into
negotiations without having organized the necessary force as a support.

Not that it was possible for us by military means to prevent the
occupation of the Ruhr. Only a madman could have recommended such a
decision. But under the impression produced by the action which France
had taken, and during the time that it was being carried out, measures
could have been, and should have been, undertaken without any regard to
the Versailles Treaty, which France herself had violated, to provide
those military resources which would serve as a collateral argument to
back up the negotiations later on. For it was quite clear from the
beginning that the fate of this district occupied by the French would
one day be decided at some conference table or other. But it also must
have been quite to everybody that even the best negotiators could have
little success as long as the ground on which they themselves stood and
the chair on which they sat were not under the armed protection of their
own people. A weak pigmy cannot contend against athletes, and a
negotiator without any armed defence at his back must always bow in
obeisance when a Brennus throws the sword into the scales on the enemy's
side, unless an equally strong sword can be thrown into the scales at
the other end and thus maintain the balance. It was really distressing
to have to observe the comedy of negotiations which, ever since 1918,
regularly preceded each arbitrary dictate that the enemy imposed upon
us. We offered a sorry spectacle to the eyes of the whole world when we
were invited, for the sake of derision, to attend conference tables
simply to be presented with decisions and programmes which had already
been drawn up and passed a long time before, and which we were permitted
to discuss, but from the beginning had to be considered as unalterable.
It is true that in scarcely a single instance were our negotiators men
of more than mediocre abilities. For the most part they justified only
too well the insolent observation made by Lloyd George when he
sarcastically remarked, in the presence of a former Chancellor of the
REICH, Herr Simon, that the Germans were not able to choose men of
intelligence as their leaders and representatives. But in face of the
resolute determination and the power which the enemy held in his hands,
on the one side, and the lamentable impotence of Germany on the other,
even a body of geniuses could have obtained only very little for
Germany.

In the spring of 1923, however, anyone who might have thought of seizing
the opportunity of the French invasion of the Ruhr to reconstruct the
military power of Germany would first have had to restore to the nation
its moral weapons, to reinforce its will-power, and to extirpate those
who had destroyed this most valuable element of national strength.

Just as in 1918 we had to pay with our blood for the failure to crush
the Marxist serpent underfoot once and for all in 1914 and 1915, now we
have to suffer retribution for the fact that in the spring of 1923 we
did not seize the opportunity then offered us for finally wiping out the
handiwork done by the Marxists who betrayed their country and were
responsible for the murder of our people.

Any idea of opposing French aggression with an efficacious resistance
was only pure folly as long as the fight had not been taken up against
those forces which, five years previously, had broken the German
resistance on the battlefields by the influences which they exercised at
home. Only bourgeois minds could have arrived at the incredible belief
that Marxism had probably become quite a different thing now and that
the CANAILLE of ringleaders in 1918, who callously used the bodies of
our two million dead as stepping-stones on which they climbed into the
various Government positions, would now, in the year 1923, suddenly show
themselves ready to pay their tribute to the national conscience. It was
veritably a piece of incredible folly to expect that those traitors
would suddenly appear as the champions of German freedom. They had no
intention of doing it. Just as a hyena will not leave its carrion, a
Marxist will not give up indulging in the betrayal of his country. It is
out of the question to put forward the stupid retort here, that so many
of the workers gave their blood for Germany. German workers, yes, but no
longer international Marxists. If the German working class, in 1914,
consisted of real Marxists the War would have ended within three weeks.
Germany would have collapsed before the first soldier had put a foot
beyond the frontiers. No. The fact that the German people carried on the
War proved that the Marxist folly had not yet been able to penetrate
deeply. But as the War was prolonged German soldiers and workers
gradually fell back into the hands of the Marxist leaders, and the
number of those who thus relapsed became lost to their country. At the
beginning of the War, or even during the War, if twelve or fifteen
thousand of these Jews who were corrupting the nation had been forced to
submit to poison-gas, just as hundreds of thousands of our best German
workers from every social stratum and from every trade and calling had
to face it in the field, then the millions of sacrifices made at the
front would not have been in vain. On the contrary: If twelve thousand
of these malefactors had been eliminated in proper time probably the
lives of a million decent men, who would be of value to Germany in the
future, might have been saved. But it was in accordance with bourgeois
'statesmanship' to hand over, without the twitch of an eyelid, millions
of human beings to be slaughtered on the battlefields, while they looked
upon ten or twelve thousand public traitors, profiteers, usurers and
swindlers, as the dearest and most sacred national treasure and
proclaimed their persons to be inviolable. Indeed it would be hard to
say what is the most outstanding feature of these bourgeois circles:
mental debility, moral weakness and cowardice, or a mere down-at-heel
mentality. It is a class that is certainly doomed to go under but,
unhappily, it drags down the whole nation with it into the abyss.

The situation in 1923 was quite similar to that of 1918. No matter what
form of resistance was decided upon, the first prerequisite for taking
action was the elimination of the Marxist poison from the body of the
nation. And I was convinced that the first task then of a really
National Government was to seek and find those forces that were
determined to wage a war of destruction against Marxism and to give
these forces a free hand. It was their duty not to bow down before the
fetish of 'order and tranquillity' at a moment when the enemy from
outside was dealing the Fatherland a death-blow and when high treason
was lurking behind every street corner at home. No. A really National
Government ought then to have welcomed disorder and unrest if this
turmoil would afford an opportunity of finally settling with the
Marxists, who are the mortal enemies of our people. If this precaution
were neglected, then it was sheer folly to think of resisting, no matter
what form that resistance might take.

Of course, such a settlement of accounts with the Marxists as would be
of real historical importance could not be effected along lines laid
down by some secret council or according to some plan concocted by the
shrivelled mind of some cabinet minister. It would have to be in
accordance with the eternal laws of life on this Earth which are and
will remain those of a ceaseless struggle for existence. It must always
be remembered that in many instances a hardy and healthy nation has
emerged from the ordeal of the most bloody civil wars, while from peace
conditions which had been artificially maintained there often resulted a
state of national putrescence that reeked to the skies. The fate of a
nation cannot be changed in kid gloves. And so in the year 1923 brutal
action should have been taken to stamp out the vipers that battened on
the body of the nation. If this were done, then the first prerequisite
for an active opposition would have been fulfilled.

At that time I often talked myself hoarse in trying to make it clear, at
least to the so-called national circles, what was then at stake and that
by repeating the errors committed in 1914 and the following years we
must necessarily come to the same kind of catastrophe as in 1918. I
frequently implored of them to let Fate have a free hand and to make it
possible for our Movement to settle with the Marxists. But I preached to
deaf ears. They all thought they knew better, including the Chief of the
Defence Force, until finally they found themselves forced to subscribe
to the vilest capitulation that history records.

I then became profoundly convinced that the German bourgeoisie had come
to the end of its mission and was not capable of fulfilling any further
function. And then also I recognized the fact that all the bourgeois
parties had been fighting Marxism merely from the spirit of competition
without sincerely wishing to destroy it. For a long time they had been
accustomed to assist in the destruction of their country, and their one
great care was to secure good seats at the funeral banquet. It was for
this alone that they kept on 'fighting'.

At that time--I admit it openly--I conceived a profound admiration for
the great man beyond the Alps, whose ardent love for his people inspired
him not to bargain with Italy's internal enemies but to use all possible
ways and means in an effort to wipe them out. What places Mussolini in
the ranks of the world's great men is his decision not to share Italy
with the Marxists but to redeem his country from Marxism by destroying
internationalism.

What miserable pigmies our sham statesmen in Germany appear by
comparison with him. And how nauseating it is to witness the conceit and
effrontery of these nonentities in criticizing a man who is a thousand
times greater than them. And how painful it is to think that this takes
place in a country which could point to a Bismarck as its leader as
recently as fifty years ago.

The attitude adopted by the bourgeoisie in 1923 and the way in which
they dealt kindly with Marxism decided from the outset the fate of any
attempt at active resistance in the Ruhr. With that deadly enemy in our
own ranks it was sheer folly to think of fighting France. The most that
could then be done was to stage a sham fight in order to satisfy the
German national element to some extent, to tranquillize the 'boiling
state of the public mind', or dope it, which was what was really
intended. Had they really believed in what they did, they ought to have
recognized that the strength of a nation lies, first of all, not in its
arms but in its will, and that before conquering the external enemy the
enemy at home would have to be eliminated. If not, then disaster must
result if victory be not achieved on the very first day of the fight.
The shadow of one defeat is sufficient to break up the resistance of a
nation that has not been liberated from its internal enemies, and give
the adversary a decisive victory.

In the spring of 1923 all this might have been predicted. It is useless
to ask whether it was then possible to count on a military success
against France. For if the result of the German action in regard to the
French invasion of the Ruhr had been only the destruction of Marxism at
home, success would have been on our side. Once liberated from the
deadly enemies of her present and future existence, Germany would
possess forces which no power in the world could strangle again. On the
day when Marxism is broken in Germany the chains that bind Germany will
be smashed for ever. For never in our history have we been conquered by
the strength of our outside enemies but only through our own failings
and the enemy in our own camp.

Since it was not able to decide on such heroic action at that time, the
Government could have chosen the first way: namely, to allow things to
take their course and do nothing at all.

But at that great moment Heaven made Germany a present of a great man.
This was Herr Cuno. He was neither a statesman nor a politician by
profession, still less a politician by birth. But he belonged to that
type of politician who is merely used for liGYMNASIUMating some definite
question. Apart from that, he had business experience. It was a curse
for Germany that, in the practice of politics, this business man looked
upon politics also as a business undertaking and regulated his conduct
accordingly.

"France occupies the Ruhr. What is there in the Ruhr? Coal. And so
France occupies the Ruhr for the sake of its coal?" What could come more
naturally to the mind of Herr Cuno than the idea of a strike, which
would prevent the French from obtaining any coal? And therefore, in the
opinion of Herr Cuno, one day or other they would certainly have to get
out of the Ruhr again if the occupation did not prove to be a paying
business. Such were approximately the lines along which that OUTSTANDING
NATIONAL STATESMAN reasoned. At Stuttgart and other places he spoke to
'his people' and this people became lost in admiration for him. Of
course they needed the Marxists for the strike, because the workers
would have to be the first to go on strike. Now, in the brain of a
bourgeois statesman such as Cuno, a Marxist and a worker are one and the
same thing. Therefore it was necessary to bring the worker into line
with all the other Germans in a united front. One should have seen how
the countenances of these party politicians beamed with the light of
their moth-eaten bourgeois culture when the great genius spoke the word
of revelation to them. Here was a nationalist and also a man of genius.
At last they had discovered what they had so long sought. For now the
abyss between Marxism and themselves could be bridged over. And thus it
became possible for the pseudo-nationalist to ape the German manner and
adopt nationalist phraseology in reaching out the ingenuous hand of
friendship to the internationalist traitors of their country. The
traitor readily grasped that hand, because, just as Herr Cuno had need
of the Marxist chiefs for his 'united front', the Marxist chiefs needed
Herr Cuno's money. So that both parties mutually benefited by the
transaction. Cuno obtained his united front, constituted of nationalist
charlatans and international swindlers. And now, with the help of the
money paid to them by the State, these people were able to pursue their
glorious mission, which was to destroy the national economic system. It
was an immortal thought, that of saving a nation by means of a general
strike in which the strikers were paid by the State. It was a command
that could be enthusiastically obeyed by the most indifferent of
loafers.

Everybody knows that prayers will not make a nation free. But that it is
possible to liberate a nation by giving up work has yet to be proved by
historical experience. Instead of promoting a paid general strike at
that time, and making this the basis of his 'united front', if Herr Cuno
had demanded two hours more work from every German, then the swindle of
the 'united front' would have been disposed of within three days.
Nations do not obtain their freedom by refusing to work but by making
sacrifices.

Anyhow, the so-called passive resistance could not last long. Nobody but
a man entirely ignorant of war could imagine that an army of occupation
might be frightened and driven out by such ridiculous means. And yet
this could have been the only purpose of an action for which the country
had to pay out milliards and which contributed seriously to devaluate
the national currency.

Of course the French were able to make themselves almost at home in the
Ruhr basin the moment they saw that such ridiculous measures were being
adopted against them. They had received the prescription directly from
ourselves of the best way to bring a recalcitrant civil population to a
sense of reason if its conduct implied a serious danger for the
officials which the army of occupation had placed in authority. Nine
years previously we wiped out with lightning rapidity bands of Belgian
FRANCS-TIREURS and made the civil population clearly understand the
seriousness of the situation, when the activities of these bands
threatened grave danger for the German army. In like manner if the
passive resistance of the Ruhr became really dangerous for the French,
the armies of occupation would have needed no more than eight days to
bring the whole piece of childish nonsense to a gruesome end. For we
must always go back to the original question in all this business: What
were we to do if the passive resistance came to the point where it
really got on the nerves of our opponents and they proceeded to suppress
it with force and bloodshed? Would we still continue to resist? If so,
then, for weal or woe, we would have to submit to a severe and bloody
persecution. And in that case we should be faced with the same situation
as would have faced us in the case of an active resistance. In other
words, we should have to fight. Therefore the so-called passive
resistance would be logical only if supported by the determination to
come out and wage an open fight in case of necessity or adopt a kind of
guerilla warfare. Generally speaking, one undertakes such a struggle
when there is a possibility of success. The moment a besieged fortress
is taken by assault there is no practical alternative left to the
defenders except to surrender, if instead of probable death they are
assured that their lives will be spared. Let the garrison of a citadel
which has been completely encircled by the enemy once lose all hope of
being delivered by their friends, then the strength of the defence
collapses totally.

That is why passive resistance in the Ruhr, when one considers the final
consequences which it might and must necessarily have if it were to turn
out really successful, had no practical meaning unless an active front
had been organized to support it. Then one might have demanded immense
efforts from our people. If each of these Westphalians in the Ruhr could
have been assured that the home country had mobilized an army of eighty
or a hundred divisions to support them, the French would have found
themselves treading on thorns. Surely a greater number of courageous men
could be found to sacrifice themselves for a successful enterprise than
for an enterprise that was manifestly futile.

This was the classic occasion that induced us National Socialists to
take up a resolute stand against the so-called national word of command.
And that is what we did. During those months I was attacked by people
whose patriotism was a mixture of stupidity and humbug and who took part
in the general hue and cry because of the pleasant sensation they felt
at being suddenly enabled to show themselves as nationalists, without
running any danger thereby. In my estimation, this despicable 'united
front' was one of the most ridiculous things that could be imagined. And
events proved that I was right.

As soon as the Trades Unions had nearly filled their treasuries with
Cuno's contributions, and the moment had come when it would be necessary
to transform the passive resistance from a mere inert defence into
active aggression, the Red hyenas suddenly broke out of the national
sheepfold and returned to be what they always had been. Without sounding
any drums or trumpets, Herr Cuno returned to his ships. Germany was
richer by one experience and poorer by the loss of one great hope.

Up to midsummer of that year several officers, who certainly were not
the least brave and honourable of their kind, had not really believed
that the course of things could take a turn that was so humiliating.
They had all hoped that--if not openly, then at least secretly--the
necessary measures would be taken to make this insolent French invasion
a turning-point in German history. In our ranks also there were many who
counted at least on the intervention of the REICHSWEHR. That conviction
was so ardent that it decisively influenced the conduct and especially
the training of innumerable young men.

But when the disgraceful collapse set in and the most humiliating kind
of capitulation was made, indignation against such a betrayal of our
unhappy country broke out into a blaze. Millions of German money had
been spent in vain and thousands of young Germans had been sacrificed,
who were foolish enough to trust in the promises made by the rulers of
the REICH. Millions of people now became clearly convinced that Germany
could be saved only if the whole prevailing system were destroyed root
and branch.

There never had been a more propitious moment for such a solution. On
the one side an act of high treason had been committed against the
country, openly and shamelessly. On the other side a nation found itself
delivered over to die slowly of hunger. Since the State itself had
trodden down all the precepts of faith and loyalty, made a mockery of
the rights of its citizens, rendered the sacrifices of millions of its
most loyal sons fruitless and robbed other millions of their last penny,
such a State could no longer expect anything but hatred from its
subjects. This hatred against those who had ruined the people and the
country was bound to find an outlet in one form or another. In this
connection I shall quote here the concluding sentence of a speech which
I delivered at the great court trial that took place in the spring of
1924.

"The judges of this State may tranquilly condemn us for our conduct at
that time, but History, the goddess of a higher truth and a better legal
code, will smile as she tears up this verdict and will acquit us all of
the crime for which this verdict demands punishment."

But History will then also summon before its own tribunal those who,
invested with power to-day, have trampled on law and justice, condemning
our people to misery and ruin, and who, in the hour of their country's
misfortune, took more account of their own ego than of the life of the
community.

Here I shall not relate the course of events which led to November 8th,
1923, and closed with that date. I shall not do so because I cannot see
that this would serve any beneficial purpose in the future and also
because no good could come of opening old sores that have been just only
closed. Moreover, it would be out of place to talk about the guilt of
men who perhaps in the depths of their hearts have as much love for
their people as I myself, and who merely did not follow the same road as
I took or failed to recognize it as the right one to take.

In the face of the great misfortune which has befallen our fatherland
and affects all us, I must abstain from offending and perhaps disuniting
those men who must at some future date form one great united front which
will be made up of true and loyal Germans and which will have to
withstand the common front presented by the enemy of our people. For I
know that a time will come when those who then treated us as enemies
will venerate the men who trod the bitter way of death for the sake of
their people.

I have dedicated the first volume of this book to our eighteen fallen
heroes. Here at the end of this second volume let me again bring those
men to the memory of the adherents and champions of our ideals, as
heroes who, in the full consciousness of what they were doing,
sacrificed their lives for us all. We must never fail to recall those
names in order to encourage the weak and wavering among us when duty
calls, that duty which they fulfilled with absolute faith, even to its
extreme consequences. Together with those, and as one of the best of
all, I should like to mention the name of a man who devoted his life to
reawakening his and our people, through his writing and his ideas and
finally through positive action. I mean: Dietrich Eckart.




EPILOGUE



On November 9th, 1923, four and a half years after its foundation, the
German National Socialist Labour Party was dissolved and forbidden
throughout the whole of the REICH. To-day, in November 1926, it is again
established throughout the REICH, enjoying full liberty, stronger and
internally more compact than ever before.

All persecutions of the Movement and the individuals at its head, all
the imputations and calumnies, have not been able to prevail against it.
Thanks to the justice of its ideas, the integrity of its intentions and
the spirit of self-denial that animates its members, it has overcome all
oppression and increased its strength through the ordeal. If, in our
contemporary world of parliamentary corruption, our Movement remains
always conscious of the profound nature of its struggle and feels that
it personifies the values of individual personality and race, and orders
its action accordingly--then it may count with mathematical certainty on
achieving victory some day in the future. And Germany must necessarily
win the position which belongs to it on this Earth if it is led and
organized according to these principles.

A State which, in an epoch of racial adulteration, devotes itself to the
duty of preserving the best elements of its racial stock must one day
become ruler of the Earth.

The adherents of our Movements must always remember this, whenever they
may have misgivings lest the greatness of the sacrifices demanded of
them may not be justified by the possibilities of success.



End of this Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook
MEIN KAMPF by Adolf Hitler, translated into English by James Murphy



-----------------------------------------------------------------

More information about this eBook is provided at the top of this file.

Our US site is at http://gutenberg.net or http://promo.net/pg

It takes us, at a rather conservative estimate, fifty hours to get any
eBook selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright searched and
analyzed.

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation in the United States has
been created to secure a secure future for Project Gutenberg

All donations should be made to:
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
PMB 113
1739 University Ave.
Oxford, MS 38655-4109 USA

***

** The Legal Small Print **
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers. They tell
us you might sue us if there is something wrong with your copy of this
eBook, even if you got it for free from someone other than us, and even
if what's wrong is not our fault.  So, among other things, this
"Small Print!" statement disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also
tells you how you may distribute copies of this eBook if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS eBook
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook, you
indicate that you understand, agree to and accept this "Small Print!"
statement.  If you do not, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for this eBook by sending a request within 30 days of receiving
it to the person you got it from.  If you received this eBook on a
physical medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM eBookS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook is in the "public domain" in Australia
Among other things, this means that, in Australia, no one owns a copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and distribute it
in Australia without permission and without paying copyright royalties.
Special rules, set forth below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute
this eBook under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

Please do not use the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark to market any
commercial products without permission.

To create these eBooks, the Project expends considerable efforts to
identify, transcribe and proofread public domain works.  Despite these
efforts, the Project's eBooks and any medium they may be on may contain
"Defects".  Among other things, Defects may take the form of incomplete,
inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other
eBook medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be
read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below, [1] Michael
Hart and the Foundation (and any other party you may receive this eBook
from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm eBook) disclaims all liability to you for
damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO
REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF
WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT,
CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this eBook within 90 days of receiving it, you
can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending an
explanatory note within that time to the person you received it from.  If
you received it on a physical medium, you must return it with your note,
and such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy.
If you received it electronically, such person may choose to alternatively
give you a second opportunity to receive it electronically.

THIS eBook IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS TO THE eBook OR ANY
MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold Michael Hart, the Foundation, and its trustees
and agents, and any volunteers associated with the production and
distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm texts harmless, from all liability,
cost and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly
from any of the following that you do or cause:  [1] distribution of this
eBook, [2] alteration, modification, or addition to the eBook, or [3] any
Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this eBook electronically, or by disk, book
or any other medium if you either delete this "Small Print!" and all other
references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     eBook or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     if you wish, distribute this eBook in machine readable
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     including any form resulting from conversion by word
     processing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The eBook, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author, and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The eBook may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the eBook (as is
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          eBook in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]  Honor the eBook refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Foundation of 20% of the
     gross profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation"
     the 60 days following each date you prepare (or were
     legally required to prepare) your annual (or equivalent
     periodic) tax return.  Please contact us beforehand to
     let us know your plans and to work out the details.

** END THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN eBookS*Ver.06/12/01 **
[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
and may be reprinted only when these eBooks are free of all fees.]
[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
of Project Gutenberg eBooks or other materials be they hardware or
software or any other related product without express permission.]

**********


